Watters: 'The Democrats Are Helping the Russians Sow Discord'. RNC Chair: Indictment Shows Obama Admin 'Lost Sight of Russia'. Tucker Carlson debated Hollywood producer and actor Rob Reiner over President Trump and his response to the latest Russia probe revelations.. Rosenstein, a former U.S. Attorney for Maryland, added that "there is no allegation in this indictment that any American was a knowing participant in this illegal activity" or that the meddling affected the election outcome.. Reiner, who acted in "All in the Family" and whose company Castle Rock has produced hit shows like "Seinfeld," tweeted that "if Trump is acknowledge this and unwilling to protect US, the word treason is now center stage.". It is now crystal clear that Russia had a profound impact on the 2016 election. They have attacked US, they are continuing to attack US. If Trump is unwilling to acknowledge this and unwilling to protect US, the word TREASON is now center stage.. There are 21,000,000 reasons why Donald Trump refuses to protect our children from being slaughtered by guns. The NRA has deep pockets. But we will show them that our hearts and our pockets are deeper than theirs.. Carlson asked Reiner if he was "embarrassed" by accusing people of treason in spite of his history of fighting against McCarthyism.. Reiner told Carlson he was not directly accusing the president of treason, but said his overall refusal to admit there has been election meddling on the part of Russia is troubling.. "We've been invaded," Reiner said. "They continue to... try to disrupt our democracy.". Russia started their anti-US campaign in 2014, long before I announced that I would run for President. The results of the election were not impacted. The Trump campaign did nothing wrong - no collusion!. "What I said was if [Trump] is refusing to acknowledge the fact that Russia did attack during the election and refuses to do anything about it, then you're conspiring with the enemy," Reiner said.. "Maybe he'll change his mind," Reiner said, adding that he and Carlson seem to have consensus on the fact Russia indeed meddled in the election.. Watch more above.. Chaffetz on DOJ's Indictment of 13 Russians: 'Mitt Romney Was Right in 2012'. RNC Spokesperson: Indictment of 13 Russians Unravels Dems' 'Collusion Conspiracy Theory'. WATCH FULL EPISODES OF YOUR FAVORITE FOX NEWS SHOWS!. Stay connected with the most-watched, most-trusted name in news.. Stay connected with the most-watched, most-trusted name in news.. Congressional candidate Steve Lonegan (R-N.J.) said the Florida school shooting should be a sign that it is time to return prayer to the public school classroom.. Former secret service agent Dan Bongino said that new revelations detailed in the Mueller probe's federal indictment of several Russian nationals finally renders Trump collusion claims moot.. Polk County, Fla. Sheriff Grady Judd said it would be a "game changer" to allow some hand-picked teachers to carry firearms in the classroom.. Fox News Meteorologist Rick Reichmuth talked to longtime NASCAR cup series driver Jimmie Johnson, as he previewed the first full-length race of the 2018 NASCAR season.. Jeff Sessions reacts to the Florida tragedy and every battle between lawmakers.. From the tragic school shooting to the latest on Capitol Hill, Rush Limbaugh reacts to it all in a powerful exclusive interview.. The blue dress, the grand jury and the Starr Report.... Steve dives into the deep financial swamp and exposes Wall Street corruption.. Stay connected with the most-watched, most-trusted name in news. 