. Former Gov. Mitt Romney announced his candidacy for Senate seat on Friday and he's put together a small, yet experienced campaign staff with deep ties to the hedge fund world to help him navigate the complex The Romney campaign leadership starts with two of his closest confidants from his hedge fund, Solamere Capital, Matt Waldrip, the head of business development at the firm, and Spencer Zwick, the cofounder of the company. Both have links to previous political ambitions, with Zwick serving as finance chairman for 2012 run for president and Waldrip working as his deputy finance director.. This time around Waldrip is expected to be the campaign manager while Zwick will take on advisory role, according to the Waldrip and Zwick did not return requests for comment. Matheson declined to Beyond turning to two members of his old guard, the former Massachusetts governor has also received outside counsel from former congressional lawmaker and current Fox News Contributor Jason Chaffetz, an eight-year Republican veteran of the House of Representatives. Chaffetz had advised him to, among other things, not turn on President Donald GOP primary . think going to bode well in Utah if Chaffetz, once a representative of District, told FOX Business. also think what going to do because I think he cares deeply about the issues and he wants to use his presence to move those issues Chaffetz The feud between Romney and Trump ignited during the 2016 presidential election when the former presidential nominee took on Trump, calling him a and a Trump, then a nominee for president himself, responded at one of his campaign rallies, claiming Romney came for his endorsement four years earlier. Still, both leaders seemed to make amends after Trump was elected president when he considered Romney to be his secretary of Chaffetz recommended to Romney two members of his former Capitol Hill staff, M.J. Henshaw, former communications director for Chaffetz when he was chairman of the House Oversight Committee, and Kelsey Berg, a special projects coordinator for the congressman and currently running her own campaign consulting firm based out of Henshaw and Berg did not return requests for comments.. Romney has also reached out to longtime Senate ally Mike Lee (R-Utah), to keep him up to date with his future campaign endeavors and receive his recommendation on issues he should focus on if he chose to run for Romney reached out very early in the process and has kept in regular and friendly contact with Senator Lee about his Conn Carroll, spokesman for Lee, told FOX Business in a statement. his foray into the national spotlight in the president and CEO of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee for the 2002 Winter Olympics, successfully capturing for Utah the coveted games for the first time. Zwick was hired to assist Romney with running the committee and was instrumental in erasing the which had added up to $379 One year later, Romney became the governor of Massachusetts, following it five years later with his first He lost the Republican nomination that year to Sen. of ran for a second time in 2012 against Barack Obama and eventually lost in the general He could make his first public speech as a candidate for Senate at the state dinner Friday. The Utah Republican Party website continues to show Romney as the keynote Click the button below to comment on this article. 