If it happens, the 280 characters might just make up one of the most important social media messages in California politics this year: a tweet from President Trump about the Golden State's race for governor.. First, let's set the scene with a reminder of the political peril facing California Republicans in this electoral season. Not only have Democrats won every statewide race since the fall of 2006 — that's 18 separate contests — but the GOP share of the registered electorate has kept shrinking.. GOP leaders undoubtedly would love to win some of the posts currently held by Democrats. But keeping what they have now is their most basic mission. Losing ground would be bad for the state party, potentially worse for national Republicans if it helps flip the U.S. House to Democrats and spark an existential threat to the Trump presidency.. California Republicans are looking for a champion in the race for U.S. Senate ». It is the candidates themselves who energize most voters, and there's no clear standard-bearer for state Republicans. In the race for governor, more than two-thirds of GOP voters in the recent PPIC poll either didn't know — or had no opinion about — any of the three most active candidates. Among all likely voters, all were in single digits in support.. Track the California races that could flip the House of Representatives ». So who might the GOP voters listen to, someone with enough influence to rally the faithful around a single Californian that could keep Republicans from staying home in 2018?. Well, there's a guy who was supported by 76% of the party's voters in the PPIC survey. That would be Trump. And he's got an effective way to ensure a chosen candidate gets a ton of free attention.. The flip side, of course, is that an embrace from Trump could turn off millions of otherwise persuadable California voters. But for a party with limited options, firing up the voters you already have may be better than doing nothing at all.. john.myers@latimes.com. ALSO:. Updates on California politics 