“The Incredible Dr. Pol”: In the Feb. 18 Calendar section, an article about the Nat Geo Wild TV series “The Incredible Dr. Pol” gave the title of a previous show about a veterinarian as “All Things Bright and Beautiful” and said it was unscripted. It was “All Creatures Great and Small” and was.... Pitcher charged: In the Feb. 15 Sports section, a brief news item about former All-Star pitcher Esteban Loaiza facing drug charges in San Diego County Superior Court said he had entered a guilty plea. He pleaded not guilty.   Florida shooting: In the Feb. 16 Section A, an article on the Florida high.... Korean unity: In the Feb. 15 Section A, an article about relations between North Korea and South Korea gave the distance between Panmunjom and Pyeongchang as 40 miles. It is just over 100 miles.   Homeless camp: In the Jan. 22 Section A, an article about homeless peopleliving along the SantaAna River.... “Hamlet”: In the Feb. 9 Calendar section, “The 99-Seat Beat” theater column misstated the location where Rafael Goldstein starred in “Hamlet” in 2012. The production was at Zombie Joe’s Underground, not at A Noise Within.   Financial aid: In the Feb. 13 California section, an article about the California.... Montecito mudslide: In the Feb. 11 California section, a column by Steve Lopez said the Montecito mudslide occurred Jan. 11. It was Jan. 9.   Korean hockey: An article in some editions of the Feb. 11 Section A said the combined Korean women’s hockey team lost to Sweden. The Koreans lost to Switzerland..... Child’s death: In the Jan. 28 California section, an article about the death of an infant in Altadena said that the child’s mother, Dora Yoder, had a pending bench warrant for her arrest. The warrant was dismissed and Yoder pleaded no contest Dec. 29 to petty theft, according to the Los Angeles.... Credit scores: In the Feb. 4 Business section, a Money Talk column about ways to improve credit scores, which included getting a credit builder loan, stated that such loans are typically offered by credit bureaus. Such loans are typically offered by credit unions.   If you believe that we have made.... Nunes hometown: An article in the Feb. 7 California section about Rep. Devin Nunes’ hometown of Tulare identified the smelt as a fish not indigenous to the Central Valley. It is a native species found only in the Sacramento-San Joaquin delta.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have.... Art show: In the Feb. 7 Calendar section, an article about the Jasper Johns exhibition at the Broad museum identified Matthew Skopek as a curator; he is a painting conservator. The article also referred to the Broad Art Foundation as the Broad Foundation.   If you believe that we have made an error,.... Porsche exhibit: In the Feb. 3 Business section, an article about a Porsche exhibit at the Petersen Automotive Museum said the show coincided with the 70th anniversary of the first 911 model cars built. It coincides with the 70th anniversary of the car company. The story also said Johnny Von Neumann’s.... Native American images: An article in the Jan. 31 Calendar section about an exhibition at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of the American Indian said that Crazy Horse was photographed in an eagle feather headdress. It is not known whether Crazy Horse was photographed in his lifetime.   If you believe.... Larry Nassar: In the Jan. 31 Sports section, an article about Texas Gov. Greg Abbott’s ordering an investigation into the Karolyi Ranch gymnastics training center said Larry Nassar had been convicted of molesting scores of young athletes. Nassar has pleaded guilty to 10 counts of criminal sexual.... Pence in Israel: In the Jan. 22 Section A, an article about Vice President Mike Pence arriving in Israel during an overseas trip said that “all 12 Arab members” of the Knesset, or parliament, planned to protest his speech. The 12 belong to the same predominantly Arab party, but six other Arabs.... Titus Young: In the Jan. 29 Section A, an article about former NFL player Titus Young quoted a journal entry by Young as saying, “So when I make this comeback to the league, God and the rest will understand that athletes are not exempt in mental illness.” Young referred in the journal to Roger.... Grammys at 60: In the Jan. 26 Calendar section, an article about the 60th Grammy Awards described Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee’s “Despacito” as the first Spanish-language nominee for both record and song of the year. Ritchie Valens’ 1958 adaptation of the Mexican folk song “La Bamba,” recorded by.... CashCall: In the Jan. 25 Business section, an article and photo caption about a lending company penalized for violating consumer protection laws referred to the company as CashCall Mortgage. The company penalized is CashCall, a personal lender. CashCall Mortage is a separate entity with different.... Child rape: In the Jan. 24 Section A, an article about child rape in Pakistan misidentified a surviving rape victim as Laiba. The child’s name is Kainat.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’ journalistic standards and practices, you may contact Deirdre.... Snapchat video sharing: In the Jan. 23 Business section, an article about a new Snapchat feature said users would be able to share links to their own videos. Links can be shared only to videos curated by Snapchat and videos made by celebrities and other public figures.   Rocket start-ups: In the.... Essential Politics: In the Jan. 21 California section, an “Essentials” item on the Essential Politics page said Gov. Jerry Brown’s State of the State address would be Wednesday. It is Thursday.   Government funding: In the Jan. 22 Section A, an article about the Women’s March in Las Vegas said Sen..... Congressional race: In the Jan. 14 California section, an article about the race for the 39th Congressional District said that the filing deadline for candidates is March 9. It is March 14 because the incumbent is not running.   “Small Town Crime”: In the Jan. 19 Calendar section, a photo caption.... Movie release dates: In the Jan. 14 Calendar section, the comedy “Game Night” and the biographical drama “Young Karl Marx” were listed as having March 23 release dates. Both films are to open Feb. 23.   Movie listings: In the Jan. 14 Calendar section, “Tomb Raider,” an action adventure reboot starring.... Perris arrests: An article in the Jan. 16 Section A about a Perris couple arrested after their 13 children were found shackled and malnourished gave parent David Turpin’s age as 57. He is 56. The error also appeared in articles in the Jan. 17 Section A and the Jan. 17 California section.   If you.... Rams: In the Jan. 10 Sports section, a photo caption with an article about the Rams getting a new quarterbacks coach misidentified the coach pictured with quarterback Jared Goff. It was outgoing quarterbacks coach Greg Olson, not head coach Sean McVay.   If you believe that we have made an error,.... ‘The Fosters’: The TV Highlights column in the Jan. 9 Calendar section included an item, photo and caption indicating that Benji Aflalo and Esther Povitsky were guest starring on the Freeform series “The Fosters” on Tuesday. They are not on the series.   If you believe that we have made an error,.... West Covina: In the Jan. 8 Section A, an article about West Covina’s role in the TV show “Crazy Ex-Girlfriend” said it is the hometown of the show’s main character. West Covina is the hometown of the main character’s love interest, Josh Chan.   Itzhak Perlman: In the Jan. 7 Calendar section, the.... Lakers: In some editions of the Jan. 6 Sports section, the Lakers report said that Lonzo Ball made two of six shots after missing his first two shots. Ball made four of six shots after the first two misses.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’ journalistic.... Top music: In the Jan. 4 Calendar section, an article about Ed Sheeran’s “÷” being the most-consumed album of 2017 said Sheeran’s single “Shape of You” spent 59 weeks on the Billboard Hot 100, described as record run. The record the single holds is 33 consecutive weeks in Billboard’s Top 10.   If.... Airline safety: In the Jan. 3 Business section, an article about airline safety said that 2017 was the eighth year in a row in which the U.S. had no fatalities in crashes of commercial jets. It was the fourth year in a row in which no crashes by commercial jets on U.S. soil resulted in any deaths,.... National champions: In the Dec. 31 Sports section, an article about the Sugar Bowl stated the USC-Ohio State matchups in the 1973-75 Rose Bowls produced one national champion. USC won the title outright in 1973 but also shared the title with Oklahoma in 1975.   If you believe that we have made an.... Johnny Cash: In the Dec. 26 Calendar section, an article about the 50th anniversary of the January 1968 recording session for “Johnny Cash at Folsom Prison” and the music programs that still happen at the prison said Cash’s variety show aired on CBS. It aired on ABC.   Property taxes: In the Dec..... “Big Little Lies”: In the Dec. 24 Calendar section, an article about the career of actress Laura Dern indicated that HBO has not yet greenlighted a second season of the series “Big Little Lies,” in which she costars. HBO OKd a second season earlier this month.   Amtrak crash: In the Dec. 23 Section.... Freeway pollution: In the Dec. 17 Section A, an article about affordable-housing projects near freeway pollution said Kathy Thomas heads Los Angeles County’s Community Development Commission. She heads the agency’s Economic and Housing Development Division.   Proposition 13: In the Dec. 18 California.... Paris musical: In the Dec. 15 Section A, an article about a Paris production of "Singin&apos; in the Rain" included the wrong age for director Jean-Luc Choplin. He is 67, not 77. It also misidentified the orchestra. It is the Pasdeloup Orchestra, not the Chamber Orchestra of Paris.   If you believe that.... Johnson Amendment: In the Dec. 13 California section, a photo caption with an article about churches’ ability to engage in political activity said the Rev. Mike Kinman of All Saints Church in Pasadena had given a 2004 sermon that triggered an IRS investigation of the church. The sermon was given.... Ethics fines: In the Dec. 12 California section, an article about two lawmakers agreeing to pay ethics fines included a photo of Los Angeles County supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas rather than Assemblyman Sebastian Ridley-Thomas (D-Los Angeles), one of the two lawmakers in the article.   Rolling Stones:.... Housing: In the Dec. 11 California section, an article about the Weingart Center’s plans to build a high-rise for homeless people on skid row identified Mike Alvidrez as head of SRO Housing Corp. Alvidrez is chief executive of Skid Row Housing Trust. The article also said SRO Housing has more than.... Benefit concert: In the Dec. 7 Calendar section, the “5 Nights Out” listing said that Stevie Wonder’s House Full of Toys benefit would be held Sunday at the Forum in Inglewood. It will be held at Staples Center in Los Angeles.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about.... Wildfires: In the Dec. 8 Section A, an article about the wildfires burning in Ventura County and elsewhere in Southern California referred to Ojai-area resident Jordan Schmidt as Eric Schmidt.   Newport boat parade: In the Nov. 26 Travel section, the Tip Sheet gave incorrect dates for the Newport.... Skirball fire: In the Dec. 7 Section A, an article about the Skirball fire in the Bel-Air area referred to an area adjacent to the 405 Freeway as Moraga Canyon. It is Hoag Canyon.   Pot shops: In the Dec. 7 Section A, an article about Los Angeles approving new regulations for the marijuana industry.... Gift tax: In the Dec. 5 Section A, an article about the sticking points between the House and Senate tax bills said both would double the annual exclusion from the federal tax on gifts to children or other people. The bills do not change the annual gift tax exclusion, but they do double the lifetime.... L.A. Philharmonic review: In the Dec. 4 Calendar section, a Los Angeles Philharmonic concert review implied that conductor Jonathon Heyward was part of the orchestra’s Dudamel Fellowship Program in years past. He is a fellow for 2017-18.   John Anderson: In the Dec. 5 California section, the obituary.... CIA leaders: In the Dec. 3 Section A, an article about former CIA Director Leon Panetta and the current director, Mike Pompeo, misspelled Fox News anchor Bret Baier’s first name as Brett.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’ journalistic standards and.... ‘Pang!’ showtimes: In the Dec. 1 Calendar section, an entry in the 99-Seat Beat column on small-theater performances reported that “Pang!” at 24th Street Theatre in L.A. would show at 8 p.m. Dec. 1 and end Dec. 2; it showed at 8 p.m. Dec. 2, and its final performance will be 3 p.m. Dec. 3.   If you.... Refugees lost at sea: In the Nov. 27 Section A, an article about a Tunisian’s mission to bury migrants who died at sea trying reach Europe said Doctors Without Borders had stopped sending rescue ships into the central Mediterranean Sea. The group did stop sending one boat but continues to operate.... Jumble: The Jumble word game was omitted from the Nov. 27 edition. The missing game appears today along with the daily Jumble game on Pages C5 and C6.   “1984”: In the Nov. 26 Arts & Books section, George Orwell’s “1984” was included in the paperback nonfiction bestseller list. It is a work of fiction..... Turkey sanctuary: In the Nov. 26 California section, an article about an organization that cares for turkeys once raised for food said that male turkeys are often taken to melting farms, where their semen is removed. They are taken to milking farms.   If you believe that we have made an error, or.... Mexico housing: In the special section elsewhere in this edition, the caption for a photo with an article about imprisoned activist Humbertus Perez identifies his wife as Betty Perez. Her name is Betty Juarez Rosas.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’.... ‘Lady Dynamite’: In the Nov. 23 Calendar section, a photo caption accompanying an article about the second season of the Netflix comedy “Lady Dynamite” misidentified actor Scott Marvel Cassidy as Jason Mantzoukas.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’.... Palestinian representation: In the Nov. 19 Section A, an article about the Trump administration threatening to close the Palestinian Authority representative’s office in Washington referred to Husam Zomlot as the Palestinian ambassador to the U.S. He is the chief representative of the Palestinian.... German president: In the Nov. 21 Section A, the caption for a photo with a story about German politics identified a man as German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier. The man was not Steinmeier.   Della Reese: In the Nov. 21 California section, the obituary of singer-actress Della Reese omitted the.... Gubernatorial votes: An article in the Nov. 19 California section about the Republican candidates who are running for governor misstated the number of votes Gov. Jerry Brown received in 2014. He received nearly 4.4 million votes, not 2.4 million votes.   Puerto Rico debt: An article in the Nov. 19.... Kit Reed: In the Nov. 19 Arts & Books section, an essay about author and teacher Kit Reed said that she died Sept. 27. Reed died Sept. 24.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’ journalistic standards and practices, you may contact Deirdre Edgar, readers’.... Palm Springs council: In the Nov. 15 California section, an article about Palm Springs electing an all-LGBTQ City Council referred to Mayor Rob Moon as Ron Moon.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’ journalistic standards and practices, you may contact.... Oscars illustration: In the Nov. 16 Envelope section, the credit on an illustration with an article about weird Oscars contenders misspelled artist Irene Rinaldi’s last name as Renaldi. The error was discovered after the section was printed.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have.... Small-business taxes: In the Nov. 4 Business section, an article about how the GOP tax overhaul would affect small businesses said that the current 25% tax rate kicks in for income above $91,900 for individuals and $153,100 for couples. Those income thresholds are actually the upper limits for.... State Senate race: In the Nov. 12 California section, an article about Susan Rubio’s campaign for state Senate misidentified a group that endorsed her as the Legislative Women’s Caucus. It is the Democratic Legislative Women’s Caucus.   Wildfire risk: In the Nov. 13 Section A, an article about the.... Manuela restaurant: In the Oct. 29 edition, the entry for Manuela in Jonathan Gold’s 101 Best Restaurants listing gave an incorrect phone number for the restaurant. The correct number is (323) 849-0480.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’ journalistic.... Threat suspect: In some copies of the Nov. 8 California section, an article about a former Soka University student accused of making criminal threats toward the school said that David Kenneth Smith posted on YouTube under the name Kind David. The name was King David.   Uzbek community: In the Nov..... California Sounds: An item in the California Sounds column in the Nov. 5 Arts & Books section about the band Rhye identified producer Robin Hannibal as contributing alongside vocalist Milosh to its new album. Hannibal did not work on recently released tracks or the forthcoming album.   If you believe.... Mary Corse: In the Nov. 5 Arts & Books section, an article about Light and Space artist Mary Corse said that she received a bachelor’s degree from UC Santa Barbara and a master’s from Chouinard Art Institute. Corse attended UC Santa Barbara before eventually transferring to Chouinard, where she.... Las Vegas shootings: In the Nov. 2 Section A, an article about a woman’s search for a gunshot victim she had encountered on the night of the Oct. 1 shootings contained several inaccuracies. After publication, the chief subject of the article, Sheri Sletten, told The Times that her account of reuniting.... Tesla deposits: In the Nov. 2 Business section, an article about Tesla scaling back its production goals said 4,000 people had put down deposits on Tesla Model 3 cars. The correct number as of this summer was 400,000.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’.... Time zones: In the Nov. 1 Section A, an article about Massachusetts considering moving to the Atlantic time zone said that such a change would give the continental U.S. four time zones instead of three. The contiguous U.S. currently has four time zones; Atlantic would be the fifth. The continental.... ‘Most Beautiful Island’: An item in the New Releases column in the Oct. 29 Calendar section misspelled the last name of “Most Beautiful Island” film writer-director Ana Asensio as Asenio.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’ journalistic standards and.... Plant sale: In the Oct. 28 Saturday section, an article about the San Gabriel Mountains chapter of the California Native Plant Society holding its fall plant sale Nov. 4 misstated the name of the Eaton Canyon Nature Center as Easton Canyon. Also, part of the address was duplicated. The nature center.... Tax reform: In the Oct. 29 Business section, a graphic “Federal taxes vs. federal spending” accompanying the article “Tax plan is tilted against state” labeled all figures in millions. The numbers reflect billions of dollars of taxes and spending.   “S.W.A.T.”: In the Oct. 29 Calendar section, an.... Kidnapping case: In the Oct. 26 California section, an article about the discovery of DNA evidence in the kidnapping of Sherri Papini said Papini and her husband had passed polygraph tests regarding their accounts of the incident. Sherri Papini has not been tested; only her husband has passed a.... Home-built aircraft: In the Oct. 25 Business section, an article about home-built aircraft hobbyists in Mojave, Calif., said no home-built plane had flown in unlimited-class air races. There have been a few.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’ journalistic.... Flat track racing: In the Oct. 21 Business section, the caption for a photo with an article about the 2017 American Flat Track season said that the photo was taken this year. It was from 2015. The caption also described rider Bryan Smith as riding an Indian motorcycle in the photo; he was riding.... Arcade Fire: In the Oct. 20 Calendar section, a photo caption accompanying an article about the Canadian indie rock band Arcade Fire misidentified William Butler as his bandmate and brother Win Butler.   United Airlines: In the Oct. 21 Business section, an article about United reconfiguring seats.... ‘Where’s the Money’: In the review of the movie “Where’s the Money” in the Oct. 20 Calendar section, writer Ted Sperling was misidentified as Todd Sperling.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’ journalistic standards and practices, you may contact Deirdre.... College football: In the Oct. 20 Sports section, the Weekend Viewer’s Guide for college football misspelled Navy quarterback Zach Abey’s name as Abbey and referred to him as a running back.   Art exhibition: In the Oct. 20 Calendar section, an article on the Yayoi Kusama exhibition at the Broad museum.... Wine country fires: In the Oct. 19 California section, an article about the wildfires in Northern California said all mandatory evacuation orders had been lifted in Napa County. Some Napa County evacuation orders remained in effect.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions.... Cadiz pipeline: In the Oct. 17 California section, an article about the federal government allowing Cadiz Inc. to use a railroad right-of-way for its water pipeline said the company had lobbied the Interior Department to rescind a 2011 legal opinion. Cadiz lobbied the department to rescind a 2015.... Book review: In the Oct. 15 Arts & Books section, a book review of “The King of Lighting Fixtures” misidentified author Daniel A. Olivas as David.   Congressional races: In the Oct. 16 California section, an article about political rankings of congressional races said Rep. Duncan Hunter’s reelection.... Horror film history: In the Oct. 15 Calendar section, a timeline of influential moments in horror film history said that character Jason Voorhees killed people in the original “Friday the 13th.” His mother was the killer. The story also misspelled Voorhees’ name.   Halloween attractions: In the Oct..... Kevin de León: In the Oct. 13 California section, an article about the possibility of state Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de León challenging Dianne Feinstein for her U.S. Senate seat said that De León was the first lawmaker to have held the position of Appropriations chair in both houses of the.... Wrongful-death lawsuit: In the Oct. 12 California section, an article about the Los Angeles City Council’s settling a wrongful-death lawsuit brought by the family of a man who was shot by police said the vote was 12 to 1 in favor of the agreement. The vote was 11 to 2 in favor. Councilman Mitch.... MacArthur fellows: In the Oct. 11 Calendar section, an article about MacArthur fellowship winners quoted Cecilia Conrad, a managing director of the MacArthur Foundation, as saying this year’s fellows included many “interspecies” of different fields. The quote should have read “interstices” of different.... ‘Suge’ Knight hearing: In the Oct. 7 California section, an article about Marion “Suge” Knight accusing former business partner Dr. Dre of contracting to have him killed referred to a judge granting an attorney’s order to quash a subpoena. The judge granted the attorney’s motion to quash.   Video.... North Korea: In some editions of the Oct. 8 Section A, an article about the environmental toll of North Korea’s nuclear tests said that Pyongsan is north of Pyongyang. Pyongsan is south of Pyongyang.   Chargers: In the Oct. 6 Sports section, an article about the Chargers replacing kicker Younghoe.... ‘The Meyerowitz Stories’: In the Oct. 8 Calendar section, an article about the film “The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected)” says that it is in limited theatrical release and available on Netflix. The film will be available Oct. 13, in theaters and on the streaming platform.   If you believe that.... Director Susan Lacy: In the Sept. 29 Calendar section, an article about the new HBO feature documentary film “Spielberg” (which premieres Oct. 7) described director Susan Lacy as the creator of the PBS series “American Experience.” She created “American Masters.”   If you believe that we have made.... Tom Petty: In the Oct. 4 Calendar section, an article on the final interview with Tom Petty said the rock star died hours after suffering a massive heart attack. He died after going into cardiac arrest. The official cause of death has yet to be determined.   “Our Town”: In the Oct. 4 Calendar section,.... Tom Petty: In the Oct. 3 Calendar section, the obituary of rocker Tom Petty misidentified the debut single from Petty’s Florida band Mudcrutch as “Depot City.” The title was “Depot Street.”   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’ journalistic standards.... Byron Scott burglary: In the Oct. 2 California section, an article about a burglary call at the Hermosa Beach home of former Lakers coach Byron Scott said police responded at 1:30 p.m. Saturday. Police responded at 1:30 a.m.   Lamborghini review: In the Sept. 30 Business section, a review of the.... LightWorkers.com: In the Sept. 26 Business section, a photo caption with an article about LightWorkers.com described “The Wizard of Oz” as being in MGM’s vault. Warner Bros. owns the rights to the film, which was produced and distributed by MGM.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you.... Jail expansion: In the Sept. 27 California section, an article about a protest over Los Angeles County’s planned jail expansion said that about 63% of people in state prisons had not been sentenced in 2015. The statistic referred to people in jails across California, not state prisons. Also, a.... GOP healthcare bill: In the Sept. 24 Section A, an article about the Republican healthcare proposal&apos;s potential effect on California misidentified Dustin Corcoran as the president of the California Medical Assn. He is the group&apos;s chief executive.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you.... “Will & Grace”: In the Sept. 24 Calendar section, an article about the revived NBC sitcom “Will & Grace” says the show will return Tuesday. It will return Thursday.   Seal Beach shooting: In the Sept. 23 California section, an article about the worst mass shooting in Orange County’s history said.... Border wall suit: In the Sept. 21 California section, a photo caption with an article about the state suing to halt the border wall misidentified San Diego City Councilman David Alvarez as Chula Vista Councilman Stephen Padilla.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about.... NFL ratings: In the Sept. 15 Business section, an article about NFL ratings being affected by hurricane coverage said the Dallas Cowboys beat the New York Giants 16 to 3. The score was 19 to 3.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’ journalistic standards.... Millennial home buyers: In the Sept. 10 Business section, an article about young home buyers incorrectly referred to a development in Rancho Mission Viejo as the Norwalk Neighborhoods. The project is known as the NorthWalk Neighborhoods.   Super Bowl winners: In the Sept. 3 NFL Preview section, a.... MC Hammer concert: In the Sept. 8 Calendar section, an article about MC Hammer referred to an ensemble set to accompany the rapper at a concert held Friday night as the Los Angeles Youth Orchestra. The group is the Inner City Youth Orchestra of Los Angeles.   If you believe that we have made an error,.... Oroville Dam: In the Sept. 6 California section, an article about a report on the cause of the Oroville Dam spillway failure misidentified the engineer leading the independent investigation team. He is John France, not French.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about.... Daher Capital: In the Sept. 6 Business section, an article about investment firm Daher Capital misspelled the first name of investor Michel Daher as Michael.   Luxury Condos: In the Sept. 2 edition of Hot Property, an article about the Mr. C Residences gave architect Ray Kappe’s age as 92. He is.... Hot Property: In the Sept. 2 Hot Property section, a caption with a brief news item about a newly built mansion referred to the site as being the onetime home of late actress Della Reese. She is still living.   Lakers fined: In the Sept. 1 Sports section, an article about the NBA fining the Lakers.... ‘You’re the Worst’: In the Sept. 3 Calendar section, actress Kether Donohue of the series “You’re the Worst” was misidentified in a photo caption with the TV This Week column as costar Kathleen Rose Perkins.   If you believe that we have made an error, or you have questions about The Times’ journalistic.... Harvey victims: In the Sept. 1 Section A, an article about victims of Hurricane Harvey misspelled the first name of Keisha Williams, who drowned in floodwaters, as Kiesha. Also, she was a licensed vocational nurse, not a nursing assistant; one of her two daughters, Kinaya, is 10, not 11.   Small.... Berkeley speakers: In the Aug. 30 California section, an article about debate over UC Berkeley hosting conservative speakers said the university had canceled a speaking engagement for Anne Coulter. UC Berkeley did not call off the Coulter event. It offered another time and place, which she refused.... 