.  Loup Ventures Managing Partner Gene Munster on Amazon, Apple, Google and Telsa, which plans to sell solar products at Home Depot. . The New York-based digital agency 360i released a new study that found Google Home to be more effective than Amazon Alexa in responding to thousands of questions in different categories. Using proprietary software, study participants asked each device the same thousands of questions about finance, travel, automotive and retail and gauged the accuracy of the different responses.. The Google Home emerged victorious in each round: For travel, it responded correctly six times more than Alexa; for retail; it answered correctly five times more frequently; for finance, it responded five times more accurate; and for automotive, it provided a correct answer three times more often.. Each device tends to respond differently to questions, 360i President Jared Belsky told FOX Business. For instance, if asked about where to purchase hiking shoes, the Echo would likely direct the user to Amazon.com, whereas the Home would find a nearby, local store that sells the item.. still learning, and the software is still he said. a thesis we believe to be true. Each technically, to some degree, is playing off its heritage. Google has a two-decade heritage categorizing the Over the course of the past six months, the researchers found that both devices are getting smarter and smarter, with the ability to answer 8% more questions correctly. As far as which is the better purchase, Belsky said contingent on the consumer.. . Depending on the version, an Amazon Echo, which utilizes the Alexa voice feature and is similar to Google Home, costs between $39 and $150. A Google Home costs between $79 to $142.. But, he denoted that while there are more Amazon Echo devices, the technology behind Google Home is actually more pervasive, since included in the Android phone.. really have to think about how else are people interacting with Belsky said. assistants are supported by 100 million devices. You just think about the cylinder. You have to think beyond the Click the button below to comment on this article. 