Here are seven great things we wrote about this week:. There have been many great moments from the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, but this one is my favorite so far.. Looking very much like a marshmallow come to life, Flynn charmingly bounced his way around the ring at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show in Madison Square Garden on Tuesday and straight into the hearts of the crowd.. Flynn’s handler, Bill McFadden, described the dog as eager to please and “looking for a lap.”. Yaguas National Park will encompass millions of acres of wilderness, filled with precious rain forests, and flora and fauna found nowhere else on Earth.. Indigenous groups living in the area have been working to protect the land, educating scientists about its biology and convincing the government that the land is worth saving.. The stamp is the latest emblem of the enduring appeal of Fred Rogers, the host of “Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood,” the thoughtful and popular children’s TV show. The show is celebrating the 50th anniversary of its American premiere. He is also the subject of a forthcoming biopic, “You Are My Friend,” starring Tom Hanks.. “I think he might have agreed with me that it is amazing,” Joanne Rogers, Mr. Rogers’s wife, said of the stamp. “I think that people must need him. Just look at what goes on in the world. He always wanted to provide a haven and a comfortable lap for children, and I think that is what so many of us need right now.”. Clinical trials showed that two different drugs could give tens of thousands of prostate cancer patients about two years before their cancer metastasizes, staving off months of pain and the need for chemotherapy.. Jess Yeomans spends her day on a 94-foot tugboat, flinging heavy ropes and helping direct the captain as he guides the vessel around New York Harbor. She’s the only woman on deck.. Ms. Yeomans, a freelance illustrator in her spare time, started as a temporary office worker for a tug company.. “I figured, I like being outside, I’m tough, I’m strong. I can do this job,” she said. “So I basically jumped on one day and appointed myself deckhand.”. One of the world’s most widely disseminated, free, school-based exercise programs teaches the importance of physical activity among children. Researchers studied several hundred students from kindergarten to eighth grade for 12 weeks.. The program consists of running and group games like tag. The children who played three times a week before class said they felt deeper social connections to their friends and school, and greater happiness and satisfaction with life. 