Now I know that to be a black nerd is by no means anomalous; millions of people who look like me grew up loving comic books. Yet despite our numbers, we were underground for a long time. Today, though, there appears to be a widening cultural appreciation for what black people have always known: There are many ways to be black in America. The 44th president helped.. Before, popular films reduced blackness to a set of archetypes and stereotypes. Movies like “Gone With the Wind” portrayed black people as unlearned and uncultured. When we were lucky enough to see black nerds in films like “The Amazing Spider-Man 2,” they were usually so socially inept they were unbearable to watch.. That’s why “Black Panther” is so refreshing. Chadwick Boseman plays the title character, who is also known as T’Challa, the king of the fictional African country of Wakanda; he’s smooth and brilliant. His sister, Shuri, a breakout role for Letitia Wright, is easily the smartest person in the Marvel cinematic universe, and as the princess of Wakanda, she deploys her genius to create the technology used by the people of her country to defend themselves. Even Killmonger, Black Panther’s nemesis, played by Michael B. Jordan, is a warrior with exceptional intellectual gifts.. This is a movie made by black nerds for black nerds — I just cannot believe Disney gave the director, Ryan Coogler, $200 million to pull it off. It’s a wonderful time for a black nerd to be alive.. You can be a hip-hop head, a sneaker fiend, a theater expert, a modern dance aficionado or an unapologetic comic book nerd. The democratizing power of social media has elevated the voices of those who were previously marginalized, helping undermine white culture’s habit of limiting black people to a handful of stereotypes.. The reality, of course, is that there has never been only one way to be black. There were always intellectuals like W.E.B. Du Bois, journalists like Ida B. Wells, playwrights like Lorraine Hansberry, artists like Alma Thomas. Today we have black comic book scholars like Deborah Elizabeth Whaley, literary geniuses like Kiese Laymon, Afrofuturist poets like Eve Ewing and the singular, brilliant Chance the Rapper, who brings his nerdy, gospel-influenced sensibilities to bear on postmodern hip-hop.. I must admit that I am suspicious of corporations like Disney using a beloved franchise like Black Panther or Ava DuVernay’s film of “A Wrinkle in Time” to commercialize black nerd-dom and, ultimately, to profit off the 21st-century Black Renaissance we are experiencing.. But I also cannot help feeling overjoyed about the cultural moment we are in. I wish I could go back and tell that awkward, fearful kid hiding in the locker room that in another decade he would see a big-budget comic book film directed by a black man featuring a virtually all-black cast. 