By 1969, André Harvey had been a writer and a teacher, but he could not envision continuing happily in either career. Then, on a yearlong trip abroad with his wife, Bobbie, he peered into an art gallery in Vallauris, France, and was struck by the abstract welded sculptures in the window.. Sculpture, he told his wife on the spot, was what he wanted to do.. But he had no artistic training. So he persuaded the gallery owner to teach him welding, and with his wife helping to make pottery in the gallery’s nearby studio, they were paid in meals.. “What defines his work,” Mr. Cole said in a telephone interview, “is that it is not only attentive to the forms of the natural world, but all his subjects seem to be alive. Even his plants seem to be pulsating.”. Mr. Harvey, who died on Feb. 6 at 76 in Wilmington, produced one last sculpture about a year and a half ago: an oversize study of a daddy longlegs spider. On his website, where he described his sculptures, he wrote, “Early daddy longleg encounters stick in our brain and remain so embedded that, as adults, we can time-travel the long, dusty road back to our childhood.”. His wife, the former Roberta Rush, said the cause of death was acute respiratory distress syndrome.. Mr. Harvey’s wildlife models included a group of pigs at the New Bolton Center School of Veterinary Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania in Kennett Square, where Ms. Harvey was a laboratory technician. He plied the pigs with corn so that they would be accustomed to his presence in their pen. One especially friendly sow routinely sat near Mr. Harvey and his portable sculpting table as if she were a paid model.. That cooperative pig inspired the creation of “Portrait Sitter,” a tabletop 15-pound sculpture. It was followed by “Helen,” another sitting pig that weighed in at 400 pounds.. Mr. Harvey produced limited editions of all his sculptures. One of his 25 “Helens” was stolen from the front of the Brandywine River Museum of Art in Chadds Ford, Pa., in 1995. “We were afraid that it might have ended up in the Brandywine,” Ms. Harvey recalled in a telephone interview. “André said, ‘I’ll bet it was a bunch of drunk kids.’ ”. The statue was rescued from a nearby barn several days later, and Pennsylvania state police arrested three teenagers. It was eventually returned to its place outside the museum and anchored more securely to the ground.. Mr. Harvey’s rural upbringing near a creek provided some inspiration for his art: A farmhouse on his family’s property had a cow and chickens, and he and his brother Rusty enjoyed playing with snakes.. Years later, Rusty brought his pet raccoon to his brother’s studio as a model for a sculpture of a raccoon with a fish in its mouth.. Mr. Harvey did not study art in high school. He earned a bachelor’s degree in English at the University of Virginia, became a writer for Scholastic magazines and later taught at two schools in Delaware.. The sculptures were not commissioned — Mr. Harvey did not accept commissions — so he gave Tiffany what he had.. “André had five completed sculptures, and Tiffany had five windows,” said Ms. Harvey, who ran her husband’s business.. In those early years, Mr. Harvey was focused on mastering the complexities of sculpting and foundry work. “It was a much higher level of learning than I had ever experienced,” he told Town Square Delaware.. More than 40 years later, his sculptures are in the collections of numerous museums and public spaces.. “He was one of the best animal sculptors in the country,” Gwen Pier, executive director of the National Sculpture Society, which promotes sculpture in the United States, said in a telephone interview. “His works ring true; they’re beautifully modeled, anatomically correct, and you really get a sense of the creature.”. In addition to his wife, the former Roberta Rush, Mr. Harvey is survived by his sister, Sally Harvey, and his brothers, LeRoy, Tad and Bruce. He lived in Rockland, Del., near Wilmington.. Making bronze statues is expensive and labor-intensive, but their strength and endurance appealed greatly to Mr. Harvey.. “When I wanted something to personally come from me, I wanted it to be something that would last,” he told The Morning News of Wilmington in 1986. “Bronze is a proven classic.” 