Though its last new episode aired in November, Mr. Oliver said in a telephone interview this week that he and his staff had not been idle the past three months. “What we’re doing is researching stories, trying to make sure the structural foundations are solid, trying to bank research that we know we can stand on top of,” he explained.. At the same time, Mr. Oliver said he appreciates that his show can do what his competitors on ad-supported broadcast and cable channels cannot. “To get people into a narrative for nine minutes, have a Doritos Locos Tacos ad, and then come back and say, ‘Oh, what were we talking about?’ — it’s hard,” he said.. Mr. Oliver spoke further about the coming season of “Last Week Tonight” and his exchange with Mr. Hoffman. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.. At this time last year, you spoke about not wanting “Last Week Tonight” to be overrun by coverage of President Trump. Do you think you succeeded?. A year into this administration, do you feel a certain futility in your task, that all this satirical sunlight you’re providing is not serving as any kind of disinfectant?. A complaint I sometimes hear is that late-night shows have all become the same, too political and reflexively anti-Trump. Is it possible to do a topical comedy show anymore that doesn’t fit this description?. The idea that people are being turned off to the concept of comedy that’s on at night is kind of absurd to me. I wouldn’t make it a general argument. We’re just tending our own garden. We were doing this kind of show before the Trump presidency, even before the Trump candidacy, and hopefully we’ll be doing it after he’s gone, whether that’s in four, eight, 12 or 16 years.. It can take several weeks to research and produce the segments for your show. How do you keep them timely?. Since your last season ended, there’s been a significant rise of #MeToo stories — prominent men being accused of sexual misconduct and the movement’s wider impact. Is there a way for a comedic show like yours to take on such a sensitive topic?. That’s just true of everything that we talk about. We’re sometimes attracted to things that seem hard to write comedy about. You don’t want to make fun of victims, whatever the story is. But you want to tell it delicately, with thought and rigorous attention to detail, and be unyielding over the quality of data you use. That takes a lot of work. That involves reading the studies that people cite, and even with the best ones in the world, advocacy groups are sometimes trafficking in data that is not as solid as you need it to be. So you then you try and find something else. But that is a meticulous process.. Attitudes on the topic are shifting rapidly, if your encounter with Dustin Hoffman was any indication. . How did you feel after that interaction?. What was really dispiriting to me was the extent to which that story became about me. The story, to my mind, was about how poor his answers were, not how good my questions were. Because it’s not like they were great. It’s not like there was any great insight coming from me there.. Do you think people responded to it because you were doing what they want to see journalists do, which is speak truth to power and confront those accused of wrongdoing? . Does a moment like that start to blur the line between your identity on the show and in real life — now you have to be a radical truth-teller in all situations?. I don’t think that was radical truth-telling, by any stretch of hyperbole. That was just asking some basic questions that had to be asked and then not backing down when the answers were bad. Where it intersects with this show is — it doesn’t, really. People are more than one thing. I don’t know if I subscribe to the idea that, because you take a stand on one issue, you must take a stand on all others. That feels absurd.. Are you getting fewer invitations to moderate these types of events?. I will say, I had almost no invitations beforehand, and I’m anticipating rolling snake eyes for the rest of my life. I’ve just freed up many evenings for myself in the future. That’s how you get rewarded for moments like that. 