SYDNEY, Australia — Australia’s deputy prime minister, under fire over his affair with a former staff member, defied pressure to resign on Friday and said Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull’s sharp criticism of him had been “inept” and “unnecessary.”. Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce’s remarks came a day after Mr. Turnbull banned sex between government ministers and their subordinates in response to the scandal. Mr. Turnbull said on Thursday that Mr. Joyce — head of the National Party of Australia, the junior partner in his coalition government — had made “a shocking error of judgment” by having an affair with an aide, who is now pregnant.. “In doing so, he has set off a world of woe” for the women involved, Mr. Turnbull said, including Mr. Joyce’s wife and daughters. The prime minister stopped short of asking Mr. Joyce to resign, but said he would take a leave.. On Friday, Mr. Joyce rebuked Mr. Turnbull’s criticism and said the prime minister’s remarks had “caused further harm.”. “This was a personal issue, a personal issue that’s been dragged into the public arena,” he said. “I don’t believe people should be resigning in any job over personal issues.”. In announcing the ban on sex between ministers and their subordinates, Mr. Turnbull said that ministers, whether married or single, must lead by example.. “Ministers must recognize that while they are entitled to privacy in personal matters, they occupy positions of great responsibility and public trust,” he said. “The public have high expectations of them in terms of their personal conduct and decorum.”. “We must recognize that whatever may have been acceptable or to which a blind eye was turned in the past, today, in 2018, it is not acceptable for a minister to have a sexual relationship with somebody who works for them,” Mr. Turnbull said. “It is a very bad workplace practice.”. Ms. McGowan said on Thursday that although she welcomed the prime minister’s announcement, the government should consider a code of conduct for all those who work in Parliament.. Mr. Joyce, 50, on Tuesday acknowledged his relationship with Vikki Campion, his former media adviser. Though he has spent much of the past week offering remorse to his family, he has denied ministerial misconduct and refused to resign.. If Mr. Joyce resigns, Mr. Turnbull’s government will lose its one-seat parliamentary majority. Mr. Turnbull said on Thursday that it was up to Mr. Joyce whether to step down.. Mr. Joyce will not serve as acting prime minister during Mr. Turnbull’s White House visit next week, a decision that critics said suggested the prime minister had lost confidence in him. The finance minister, Mathias Cormann, will step in instead.. Mr. Joyce said on Friday that Mr. Turnbull’s comments were “in many instances inept” and “completely unnecessary, all that is going to do is basically once more pull off the scab for everyone to look at.”. He also pushed back against what he called “implied comments about the leadership of the National Party,” saying that “we make our own decisions.” Mr. Turnbull said later on Friday that he was not seeking to interfere with the party’s decision making.. “I understand it’s a very stressful time,” Mr. Turnbull said of his deputy’s earlier comments.. The Australian tabloid newspaper The Daily Telegraph reported the affair last week alongside a photograph of a pregnant Ms. Campion, fueling a fierce debate about privacy, sex and the news media.. Sharri Markson, the national political editor at the newspaper, said she had been surprised by the initial pushback from other news outlets on whether the story was in the public interest.. The debate has since grown to include questions about gender and abuse of power.. “The Australian media in particular has protected politicians from this sort of exposure for many years,” Ms. Markson said. 