The Justice Department’s special counsel Friday indicted a group of Russian Internet trolls, accusing them of running a years-long scheme to illegally meddle with the 2016 presidential election by using social media to bolster then-Republican candidate Donald Trump’s chance at winning and hurt that of Democrat Hillary Clinton.. Here’s what else we know about Prigozhin:. • He had a shot at a cross-country skiing career. But his skiing career fell apart in 1981, when he was sentenced to 12 years in prison for robbery, fraud and involving minors in prostitution, Meduza reported. Prigozhin served nine years and was freed in 1990, just as the Soviet Union was collapsing.. • His first foray into business was a hot-dog stand. Prigozhin founded Concord Catering in 1996, and over the years began feeding Moscow children and eventually the Russian military. Putin attended the 2010 opening of Prigozhin’s food factory outside St. Petersburg, designed to supply food to schools, according to Meduza.. But parents began to protest the factory in 2011 for providing students with processed food packed with preservatives. So Prigozhin turned to Moscow, where he won school catering contracts worth more than 10 billion rubles, or $177 million, Meduza reported.. • His family has lived a life of luxury. With the lucrative contracts came a boost in Prigozhin’s social and political status, which he and his family embraced. In letters, Prigozhin called himself an adviser to the presidential administration, and a knight of the “For Merit to the Fatherland” order, according to Meduza, which reported that there is no official record of him being granted the title.. Delovoy Peterburg, an independent daily newspaper published in St. Petersburg, listed him last year as ranking 83rd among the city’s 304 ruble billionaires, with 11 billion rubles, or almost $200 million. The newspaper included only property in the public record, said Irina Pankratova, an investigative reporter. If all property linked to him had been counted, she said, he would rank in the top 5.. • He denies any involvement with troll farms. The Internet Research Agency, based in St. Petersburg, was named in the indictment as the force behind efforts to trick Americans online into following and sharing Russian-fed propaganda during the 2016 election.. As The Post’s Barrett, Horwitz and Helderman reported:. The indictment charges that the Russian efforts began in 2014, when three of the Russian conspirators visited a total of 10 states, gathering intelligence about U.S. politics. Officials say as the operation progressed, the suspects also engaged in extensive online conversations with Americans who became unwitting tools of the Russian efforts. The indictment does not accuse the Russian government of involvement in the scheme, nor does it claim that it succeeded in swaying any votes.. Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein said the suspects “allegedly conducted what they called ‘information warfare against the United States,’ with the stated goal of “spread[ing] distrust towards the candidates and the political system in general.”. The suspects, Rosenstein said, “took extraordinary steps to make it appear that they were ordinary American political activists.”. According to the indictment, Prigozhin met regularly in 2015 and 2016 with Mikhail I. Bystrov, a leader of the Internet Research Agency, about Project Lakhta, a broad-based effort to meddle with the American election.. Prigozhin has denied his involvement with the troll farm.. “The Americans are very impressionable people, and they see what they want to see,” Prigozhin told Russia’s RIA Novosti state news agency in response to the indictment. “I respect them very much.”. In regard to the list of indicted individuals, he added: “I am not at all disappointed that I appear in this list. If they want to see the devil — let them.”. Read more: . Mueller indictment is vindication for Russia’s troll-factory critics. Turkey frees reporter, but sentences 6 other journalists to life for alleged involvement in failed 2016 coup 