Voters who cast ballots for Trump — whose third wife, Melania, was pregnant at the time of the “Access Hollywood” recording — were willing to look past his self-professed propensity to “just start kissing” beautiful women and “grab them by the p---y.” Some, such as the man in the clip below, actually endorsed Trump's behavior, seemingly agreeing that access to women's bodies is a perk of wealth and fame.. The answer: They probably don't care. This adds an unusual twist to media coverage of Trump's alleged infidelities. Most male politicians — even nonreligious ones — work to project the consummate family-man image. Disclosure of an affair often tarnishes or even shatters that image, revealing that a politician is not the person voters thought he was.. “True,” Trump answered proudly. “Some of the greats in history.”. For most of his public life, Trump's desired image has been ladies' man, not family man. Daniels's and McDougal's accounts of sexual relationships, even if accurate, don't expose anything about Trump that voters did not already know.. Yet McDougal's and Daniels's stories are not irrelevant.. Another consideration is whether Trump's womanizing days are behind him. Bill Clinton was president when he had an affair with Monica Lewinsky, seemingly abusing the power of the presidency to engage with an intern. Affairs that occur when a politician holds or seeks office more obviously rise to a level of journalistic merit than those from private life because they often involve misuse of authority and public resources.. It also does not help his cause to be in a position imbued with moral authority during a period of national reckoning with sexual misconduct.. The disclosure of the “Access Hollywood” tape, which came out in the final weeks of the presidential race, did force Trump to try to repair his public image a bit. He sold himself as being a different person.. Trump's alleged affairs with Daniels and McDougal occurred more than a decade ago. If their stories were to draw out more recent claims, however, then the “changed man” narrative could unravel. 