Kosovo's prime minister is no stranger to the spotlight.. Ramush Haradinaj, the 49-year-old former leader of the Kosovo Liberation Army, is in his second tour as the country's premier. His first ended when he resigned to face international war crime charges that resulted from a bloody conflict that pitted Albania and ethnic Kosovars against Serbia in the 1990s. (He was acquitted.). Haradinaj returned to power in September and was in Washington last week to mark the 10th anniversary of Kosovo's declaration of independence  and to trumpet his government's relationship with the United States. But the young, Muslim-majority republic faces serious challenges: high with Islamist extremism.. In 1999, the United States, under President Bill Clinton, intervention siding with Albania and ethnic Kosovars against Serbia, which, led by Slobodan Milosevic, waged an ethnic cleansing campaign against the Muslim minority. When that operation ended, Kosovo was placed under United Nations control before it declared independence in 2008.. President George W. Bush was among the first world leaders to recognize the nascent state. Both men are commemorated with streets and monuments in Kosovo's capital, Pristina.. Since gaining its independence, Kosovo has been recognized by only 111 of the United Nations' member states. Absent among them are Russia, China and, perhaps most importantly, five European Union member states, effectively blocking a potential bid by Kosovo to join the continental alliance.. Haradinaj is a compelling character. His first term as prime minister was cut short in 2005 after only three months when he resigned and voluntarily surrendered himself to Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to face war crime charges brought against him by Serbia. Haradinaj is the only sitting prime minister to willingly submit himself to an international judicial process.. A soft-spoken man from an influential farming family, he is a one-time bouncer turned freedom speaks fluent English and presents a nuanced approach to tackling the issues of world.. As Kosovo looks to move beyond its war-torn past, Haradinaj sat down with The Washington Post to reflect on his country's 10 years of independence, the bond Kosovars feel with the United States and the challenges his country faces. (The interview below has been edited and condensed.). Read more. He was a rare voice of moderation among Serbs. Now, Oliver slaying may fuel new tensions in the Balkans.. the Crimea Kosovo accuses Serbia of seeking to annex province. A tale of two cities: The river separating ethnic groups in Kosovo 