The hackers, he suggested, may have been Chinese. Or some 400-pound guy sitting on his bed. Again and again, he insisted, Russian interference was a hoax a fiction created by Democrats as an excuse for losing an election they should have won.. When Donald Trump finally acknowledged publicly that Russians had hacked Democratic emails and interfered in the 2016 presidential election, the then-president-elect immediately regretted it. He confided to advisers that he did not believe the intelligence. The last thing Trump wanted to do was to endorse the notion that his victory may have been caused by any force other than his own strategy, message and charisma.. Another tweet, this one from May 2017: Russia-Trump collusion story is a total hoax, when will this taxpayer funded charade But own Justice Department has concluded otherwise. A 37-page federal indictment released Friday afternoon spells out in exhaustive detail a three-year Russian plot to disrupt democracy and boost campaign, dealing a fatal blow to one of the favorite talking points.. A Russia this was not.. The indictment signed by special counsel Robert S. Mueller III and announced by Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein, both of whom Trump has at times mused about wanting to fire reveals that the scope of alleged efforts to help Trump defeat Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton was extraordinary.. Even Trump seemed to partly concede the point Friday, acknowledging election interference while still minimizing its effects.. have known that Russians meddled in the election, but these indictments detail the extent of the House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) said in a statement. Russians engaged in a sinister and systematic attack on our political system. It was a conspiracy to subvert the process, and take aim at democracy itself. announcement underscores why we need to follow the facts and work to protect the integrity of future Rep. Adam B. Schiff (Calif.), the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, which has been investigating Russian meddling, said in a statement, indictment reaffirms what our intelligence community concluded, what our investigation has borne out, and what President Trump denies: that Russia interfered in our election in an effort to assist his presidential campaign and harm Hillary But the intelligence warnings have gone largely unheeded in the White House.. During the first 13 months of his presidency, Trump has rejected the evidence that Russia waged an assault on a pillar of American democracy something many in his administration regard as objective reality and has sought to discredit the case that Russia poses a threat to the United States. White House officials have said this is partly because Trump wants to forge a productive partnership with Russian President Putin to tackle problems in North Korea, Iran and other hot spots.. Trump has never convened a Cabinet-level meeting on Russian interference and has resisted or attempted to undo efforts to hold Moscow to account, such as additional penalties imposed last August by Congress. On the National Security Council, there has been an unspoken understanding that the president would see raising the Russia matter as a personal affront.. behind it? And how do we fight Holt asked Trump.. saying Russia, the candidate said, referencing Clinton. I maybe it was. I mean, it could be Russia. But it could also be China. It could also be lots of other people. It also could be somebody sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds, Thus began the 400-pound-couch-potato theory.. It was not until January 2017 that advisers persuaded him to acknowledge for the first time that he believed Russians were behind the cyberattacks. The leaders of the intelligence agencies had traveled to New York on Jan. 6 to brief the president-elect on their findings. And in the days that followed, chief of staff Reince Priebus, son-in-law Jared Kushner and other advisers prodded Trump to accept the findings. They argued that he could affirm the validity of the intelligence without diminishing his electoral win.. Trump scoffed at the intelligence findings, arguing that they could not be trusted, but he finally relented. On Jan. 11, in the lobby of Trump Tower, the held a news conference and said it once and for all: far as hacking, I think it was Afterward, Trump told aides that he regretted the comments, and he has since hedged his words when asked about Russian interference. In November, during a trip to Asia, he met with Putin and apparently discussed the issue. Trump told reporters that he believed denials. 