There was 18-year-old American Nathan Chen, impossibly in arrears after disastrous short program, risking all to become the first in history to land six quadruple jumps in competition and succeeding.. There was Javier Fernandez, 26, who after finishing fourth at the 2014 Sochi Games, delivered first figure skating medal with a gorgeous bronze-medal performance set to music from of La And towering over all was elfin Yuzuru Hanyu, whose redemption story was the most implausible and impossibly beautiful of all. In his first competition since badly injuring his right ankle in November, the 23-year-old Hanyu solidified his status as the greatest practitioner with a free skate that tapped the full range of his expressive power and tested the limits of his endurance.. Hanyu won gold by a commanding margin 317.85 points, to the 306.90 of his countryman Shoma Uno, who clinched the silver medal. In doing so, Hanyu became the first male figure skater to repeat as Olympic champion since American Dick Button earned the second of his two consecutive gold medals at the 1952 Oslo Games.. injury was more severe than I Hanyu confessed afterward, speaking through a translator, with Fernandez, his training-partner in Montreal, seated to his left and Uno on his right.. The gold medal would have been impossible, Hanyu added, without the support of his fans, the help of his coach Brian Orser, a two-time Olympic silver medalist and 1987 world champion), skaters long since retired who continue to inspire him and Fernandez, in particular, who challenged and buoyed him throughout his painstaking recovery.. Javier, the training would have been so Hanyu said, with a bow of his head to Fernandez. would not be able to bear Fernandez voiced a debt of his own.. nickname] is one of the skaters at the moment you can watch and learn said Fernandez, whose has said his third Olympics will be his last. is strong He knows how to (turn) a bad moment into a good moment. And he will never give But it was Uno, the youngest of the medalists, who spoke most poetically.. Hanyu was my goal, and I work hard to be like Uno said of his Hanyu, now a two-time Olympic gold medalist, as well as two-time world champion. will be my eternal goal the eternal idol for It was Chen, however, the United best hope of an individual figure-skating medal, who scored the highest marks for a free skate Saturday. But combined with his 17th-place finish in an error-strewn short program, his score of 215.08 could vault him no higher than fifth.. After the worst collapse of his brilliant career, Chen retreated to his room in the village Friday and, for once, dissect his shortcomings in clinical detail. Nor did he torture himself for falling so terribly short and blowing any chance at an Olympic medal.. Chen put his head on a pillow and fell asleep.. The figure skater who awoke was unburdened by expectation. He felt no pressure. Meanwhile, past champions such as Button, Scott Hamilton and Michael Weiss sent encouraging messages via social media. Wrote Button, 88, live-tweeting the event: Nathan Chen fell off the stage at a concert and got right back up, so can Chen returned for free skate determined to make the statement hoped to make in his Olympic debut. when he decided to pack an unprecedented sixth quad in his program a decision that he knew would stretch the limits of athleticism, endurance and precision in his sport.. such a rough short program allowed me to just forget about expectation and allow myself to really enjoy said Chen, who more than lived up to his nickname, while skating to music from the film, Last Despite the heroics, it proved impossible to catch Hanyu. . much as I tried to deny it, I think I did feel the pressure a lot before the short program especially thinking about medals and placement and all of that things that were completely out of my Chen acknowledged afterward. just tightened me up; made me really cautious out on the ice, and not the right way to skate. And then, being in such a low place going into the long, I allowed myself to completely forget about expectations and just allowed myself to be U.S. teammates, Vincent Zhou and Adam Rippon, finished sixth and 10th, respectively.. In the field of 24, Rippon was one of just four skaters who plan or perform a quad. Instead, he stuck with the strategy that served him well in short program performing the jumps he does best, as beautifully as he can. spins and footwork, the artistic connective tissue between the high-value jumps, have long been world-class. And wearing a delicately beaded blue top that evoked a feathers, he made the ice his canvas in a thematic program set to (Fly about a bird with a broken wing taking flight. Light as a bird himself, Rippon hit every element with grace and, after taking his bow, put a hand to his heart.. has been said Rippon, who took equal pride in the achievements of U.S. teammates he regards as his whole entire Olympics experience has been more than I could have dreamed Zhou staged his own heroics with a five-quad program to music from the soundtrack. Zhou crushed his best marks, earning 192.16 to finish one spot behind Chen. 