Though visiting Tange’s gymnasium was formative, he had soured on Japanese Modernism by the time he was 16, in 1970. That year, Kuma attended the Expo ’70 in Osaka, where Tange and his “Metabolist” associates Kisho Kurokawa and Kiyonori Kikutake had displayed some of the most outlandish and eye-popping structures in the history of architecture. During his years in Yusuhara, Kuma was theorizing his own work with some frequency, and his substantial body of writing reveals a repeated turning over of the same ideas and experiences, much as he constantly comes back to wood to see what else it can accomplish. Small architecture is not his only mode, but it is the most natural expression of his approach, and a testament to how much he fights against other architects in his work. Michael Sypkens, a Dutch-Japanese architect and former employee who left in September to start his own practice, spoke fondly of Kuma’s work, and his success in turning Japanese architecture away from form to details. When Foster was 3, his father was shot and killed on the street in Laredo, Tex. (Not until Foster was in his 20s did she reveal her suspicion that his father, a junior-college professor, had been having an affair with a female student and was shot by a rival. His paternal grandfather worked for the Shell oil refinery whose smokestacks still punctuate the Houston skyline, and his grandparents were able to raise Foster and his siblings in relative comfort. Foster first encountered the notion of climate change when his high school debate team was assigned to research energy independence. ” In 2015, when news broke that Exxon scientists had indeed studied the causes and effects of climate change for decades, Foster would remember how he and his fellow debaters failed to understand that the industry on which their families depended might also be upending their world. In the late summer of 2016, an acquaintance invited Foster to a meeting with Ward and a small group of other activists but warned Foster that his very attendance could make him an accessory to a felony. 