8 Min Read WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A Russian propaganda arm oversaw a criminal and espionage conspiracy to tamper in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign to support Donald Trump and disparage Hillary Clinton, said an indictment released on Friday that revealed more details than previously known about purported effort to interfere. The office of U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller charged 13 Russians and three Russian companies, including St. Petersburg-based Internet Research Agency known for its trolling on social media. The court document said those accused a strategic goal to sow discord in the U.S. political system, including the 2016 U.S. presidential  The indictment said Russians adopted false online personas to push divisive messages; traveled to the United States to collect intelligence, visiting 10 states; and staged political rallies while posing as Americans. In one case, it said, the Russians paid an unidentified person to build a cage aboard a flatbed truck and another to wear a costume Clinton in a prison  The surprise 37-page indictment could alter the divisive U.S. domestic debate over meddling, undercutting some Republicans who, along with Trump, have attacked investigation. U.S. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein told a press conference that the defendants allegedly conducted they called information warfare against the United States, with the stated goal of spreading distrust towards the candidates and the political system in  The indictment describes a sophisticated, multi-year and well-funded operation, dubbed by Russian entities to influence the election, beginning as early as May 2014.  Russians unlawfully used stolen social security numbers and birth dates of Americans to open accounts on the PayPal digital payment platform and to post on social media using those fake identities, the indictment said. attorney, Jeremy I. Lessem, said in a statement that Pinedo had absolutely no knowledge of the identities and motivations of any of the purchasers of the information he  The Russians sought to measure the impact of their= online social media operations, tracking the size of U.S. audiences reached through posts and other types of engagement, such as likes, comments and reposts, according to the indictment. Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats told the Senate Intelligence Committee on Tuesday that he had already seen evidence Russia was targeting U.S. elections in November, when Republican control of the House of Representatives and Senate are at stake, plus a host of positions in state governments. 