Veterans Affairs Secretary David J. chief of staff has decided to retire, the department announced Friday, following the release of an unsparing report that said she misled officials to obtain approval for the wife to join him on a taxpayer-funded trip to Europe.. In the latest turmoil to beset the troubled agency, Vivieca Wright Simpson told colleagues earlier in the day about her plans to leave the agency after 32 years, according to two people familiar with her decision who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive personnel matters.. Simpson, the third-highest-ranking employee at the agency and most senior aide, did not reply to requests for comment.. called me this morning and told me she want to be in this environment Shulkin told Military Times on Friday of his chief of staff leaving her post.. At 7 p.m. Friday, the, VA announced that Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Executive Director Peter will now serve as permanent chief of staff, that the department works closely with the White House going the Va said in a statement.. It was another sign that the White House is seeking increasing influence inside the agency.. The VA inspector general recommended in a report this week that Simpson be disciplined for doctoring an email to an ethics lawyer to imply that the secretary was getting an award during the trip to Denmark and London last year, which would have allowed for his travel to be covered at expense.. VA said it has opened a formal investigation into actions described in the inspector report.. Trump has made clear that he expects VA leaders to hold themselves and other employees accountable when they fail to live up to the high standards taxpayers and Veterans VA press secretary Curt Cashour said in a statement.. Shulkin has promised to repay the cost of his travel and said that he intends to continue serving as VA secretary, overseeing the massive government health-care system that serves more than 9 million veterans.. He also said he is seeking to reimburse a British veterans advocate for Wimbledon tickets.. On Thursday, Shulkin faced questions from House lawmakers about the 10-day trip to Europe, which included stops in Copenhagen and London, and cost taxpayers at least $122,334. He acknowledged to the House Affairs Committee that optics of this are not Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colo.) has called on Shulkin to resign, saying, not the optics that good the The VA secretary has danced between defiance and remorse since the release, hiring a team of lawyers to discredit the findings and a public relations firm to help manage the crisis.. Lisa Rein contributed to this report.. Read more:. VA chief fights for his political future amid internal strife and allegations of subterfuge. . White House targets deputy secretary as warning to leader 