One day after the Charleston Gazette-Mail declared bankruptcy, coal industry attorney Robert McLusky made light of the plight. . Speaking at a West Virginia mining symposium Jan. 31, McLusky told the hundreds of executives there that he was sorry that the hard-hitting coal correspondent Ken Ward there. Playing off the possibility that reporters would get McLusky held up a pink sheet of paper on which he had printed name and a notice of potential layoffs at the newspaper.. The crowd laughed. . McLusky later called Ward to apologize. took a shot in front of a pro-coal audience that I regret, that I have he said in an interview.. Yet comments betrayed the ill will between the coal industry, which has dominated the economy and politics of West Virginia for the better part of a century, and the premier newspaper, the feisty Gazette-Mail, which has played an important role in checking the power. . The Gazette-Mail won many friends in coal country, where executives worry more about mining jobs than they do about the 210 jobs in danger at the Charleston newspaper. McLusky said: think safe to say that the coal industry as a whole does not view the Gazette as giving them balanced Others see it differently. has been the voice of reason in our said Davitt McAteer, a former head of the Mine Safety and Health Administration who led an independent investigation of the Upper Big Branch Mine disaster. you have a one-horse economy as West Virginia is and has been, the fact that one paper willing to not be a lap dog for that is important, he said. . The Gazette-Mail will probably be bought by Ogden Newspapers for $11 million. The bankruptcy court will decide how to divide that among creditors, who are owed more than $31 million. Nearly half that amount, is owed to United Bank, and $12 million is owed to the federal Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.. The Ogden group owns more than 40 newspapers from New York to Hawaii. . The Appalachian coal industry, whose biggest companies recently emerged from their own bankruptcies, is counting on help from President Trump. The president campaigned on the slogan back a sign at one campaign stop read: digs In office, he has vowed to bring regulatory relief and to handicap rivals in the natural gas and renewable energy industries.. If the future of the Charleston Gazette-Mail is cloudy, so is that of the coal miners. Despite promises of a turnaround for Appalachian coal miners, the amount of coal burned by power plants dropped 2.8 percent in 2017. Metallurgical coal is doing better, but overall coal output is stagnant and appears headed for further declines. . To understand the change in fortune in the West Virginia coal fields, just look to Don Blankenship, the former Massey Energy chief executive who went to prison for conspiring to violate federal safety regulations after the Upper Big Branch accident killed 29 miners in April 2010. Blankenship finished his one-year sentence last year, and he is now running for the U.S. Senate.. Blankenship faces two tough opponents. He must defeat state Attorney General Patrick Morrisey in the GOP primary and then take on Sen. Joe Manchin III (D). . There was little love lost between Blankenship and Ward, especially after the Upper Big Branch Mine disaster. In the trial after the accident, prosecutors presented a damning summary of concerns from a safety expert at Massey. The memo, Blankenship said, was than a Charleston Gazette matter who ultimately takes control, we look forward to working with Ken Ward on what we think is a very important Stephen Engelberg, editor in chief, said in an email. . The new owners might also choose to keep Ward, who has worked for the Gazette since 1991. is the only place worked and the only place wanted to he said. . Ward is something of an institution at a time when institutions are in peril. A native of West Mineral County, he started off as an intern covering a strike at Pittston Coal and has covered the industry almost continuously since. He even has kind words for McLusky, calling him very talented who in the past me understand his point of coal industry lawyer or anyone else will make decisions for us in the hiring of newsroom said Robert Nutting, chief executive of Ogden Newspapers. Nutting, great-grandson of the founder of the Wheeling News, said that if the court lets him move ahead with the purchase, he would take at the paper, but he added that the talented newsroom was of the appeal to . From its building and printing presses in downtown Charleston, the Gazette has been a fixture in state politics for more than a century. Founded in 1873, the paper was bought by the Chilton family in 1912. After a term in the Senate, businessman-politician W.E. Chilton became publisher. . His grandson, W.E. Chilton III, who ran the paper from 1961 until his death in 1987, made the paper a force for reform and coined the phrase to describe the spirit. Under him, the paper became a voice for strip-mining reform..  One of the star reporters, Paul Nyden, took on the industry over mountaintop removal, safety violations and tax scams. Nyden, who died in January, revealed through his reporting how the coal industry had built a maze of shell companies to escape liabilities for pensions, health benefits and environmental cleanup. . Chilton also did battle with Gov. Arch A. Moore Jr., who in 1990 was convicted on federal corruption charges of taking more than $500,000 from state coal interests. . paper long before me has tried not just to be a champion of a powerful local industry but to be a watchdog it, Ward said. is easy to champion local institutions that provide jobs and do all the things local institutions do to make communities viable and livable. But it is also important for newspapers to play a role in ferreting out things that are not in the public heartbreaking for me to lose something been such a part of my family for so Susan Chilton Shumate, daughter and current publisher of the Gazette-Mail, said. She used to go with her father to the building on weekends. She said she is proud of the record of reporting on environmental issues, schools and safe work environments. . know that the coal industry is a vital part of West she added. employ a lot of Indeed the decline of the coal industry hurt the help-wanted ad section. . However, she said, are issues you have to cover. Sometimes they like us, sometimes they mind . When asked whether they believe that the president is bringing coal jobs to the levels he promised during his campaign, 49 percent of respondents said no.. Yet at the recent industry conference in Charleston, McLusky the only one celebrating its prospects. . good news is with the federal government, and here to Douglas A. Matheney, special adviser to Energy Secretary Rick Perry, said at the conference. Matheney earlier worked for the coal industry, the National Mining Association and the Koch-backed Americans for Prosperity before joining the Trump campaign in Ohio in 2016. . went to Washington, D.C., for one purpose, and that was to help create coal jobs in the United he said, according to a report by S&P Global. my total purpose for being there. not a researcher. not a scientist. an advocate for the coal .   