What thoughts? What prayers?. Are we replaying in our minds the sheer horror that gripped the victims and their families? Thinking about the pain of loss and shattering of dreams? Could it happen here? Are those among our thoughts?. What are we praying for? The dead and grieving families? Swift passage of pain and suffering? For this madness to go away? Or simply homage to the murdered in the simplest way possible?. and is a stock platitude that many resort to, as if its invocation is a suitable substitute for action. Are those words enough?. Hard feelings, fists and knives do not commit mass murders. The common denominator: a gun and someone to pull the trigger.. But, come on, we know all that. We know, too, at least we should by now, that often a mentally troubled individual is wielding the weapon. And in our heart of hearts, we know that and do.. Instead, we thank the brave first responders. Denounce and jail the shooter if he is still alive. Hold prayer vigils. Conduct serial funerals. Bury the dead. And, as a nation, stop right there, ignoring the cancer of mass-casualty attacks invading every corner of our national body.. Oh, there will be condemnation of gun violence announced in high dudgeon. The gun-control debate, however, has been reduced to an exercise that allows both sides to empty themselves of the venom they have for each other.. Guns gone anywhere. Neither have those who would use them. Nonetheless, this is exactly where we find ourselves, year after bloody year of mass shootings.. And immediately after a slaughter, we are told by gun supporters in Congress and on cable talk shows that now is not the time to have a about those weapons that we need to gather all the facts that we done mourning, blah, blah, blah.. The American people can loosen that grip, and can also stand down the NRA. We have an opportunity and the means by way of the voting booth. Goodness knows, we have the motive.. We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites. 