. According to documents and sources, run into a problem at Apple Park: Because so much of the interior is made from glass the walls and doors, for example people are walking into the panes, sometimes painfully.. The company famous for its innovative design experienced at least two incidents of men walking into glass and causing injuries serious enough to warrant calls for local emergency services in the early days of its new campus, according to documents MarketWatch obtained via a public-records request. Both resulted in minor cuts but did not appear to require hospitalization, the records showed.. Silicon Valley is known for moving fast and breaking things, but Apple Inc. may want its employees to slow down in order to not break themselves or the new $5 billion headquarters.. According to documents and sources, run into a problem at Apple Park: Because so much of the interior is made from glass the walls and doors, for example people are walking into the panes, sometimes painfully.. . The company famous for its innovative design experienced at least two incidents of men walking into glass and causing injuries serious enough to warrant calls for local emergency services in the early days of its new campus, according to documents MarketWatch obtained via a public-records request. Both resulted in minor cuts but did not appear to require hospitalization, the records showed.. MarketWatch asked Apple for comment on the issue and any mitigations it has sought to enact. Apple did not provide comment in time for publication.. The extent of the problem and any steps taken to address it are difficult to determine, as Apple keeps a tight lid on the new campus. Cook said at the annual shareholder meeting earlier this week that the public ever be allowed to see the inside without an Apple badge, and authorities have been called for at least one trespassing complaint in the early days of the new headquarters, according to the records.. No word on whether much shorter spaceship office suffers from similar issues.. Jeremy Owens contributed to this report 