ational flag as an amateur choir performs in a park in a residential neighbourhood in Beijing, China February 28, 2017. (REUTERS/Thomas Peter). U.S. lawmakers and intelligence officials are expressing concern about the threat of Chinese telecommunication companies operating inside the country.. Tom Cotton, the junior U.S. Senator from Arkansas, asked some of the most pointed questions to the panel of U.S. intelligence officials during the hearing that took place earlier this week.. SCAM HIJACKS GOOGLE CHROME BROWSER, TRIES TO GET YOUR PERSONAL DATA. Cotton prefaced his questions by stating that there is a posed by China and specifically Chinese telecomm companies.". The Senator added he had introduced legislation, along with other senators, which says that U.S. government use Huawei or ZTE and the U.S. government use companies that use Cotton then addressed his questions to FBI director Christopher Wray and NSA director Adm. Mike Rogers.. "We're deeply concerned about the risks of allowing any company or entity that is beholden to foreign governments that don't share our values to gain positions of power inside our telecommunications networks," Wray said in response.. He added that entities with the capacity exert pressure or control over our telecommunications or modify or steal and undetected espionage...Those are the kinds of things that worry When Cotton turned his questions to Mike Rogers, the NSA director said that, "You need to look long and hard at companies like X, THE RESEARCH LAB FOUNDED BY GOOGLE, TARGETS CYBERCRIME AND 'OVERLOOKED' HACKING THREATS. U.S. telecom companies drop plans to offer phones. U.S. telecom companies have responded to requests, according to Wray.. been gratified to date by the response of large U.S. telecommunications providers to our trying to raise awareness on this he said.. Huawei's international strategy "hit a roadblock in the U.S, as government opposition is closing the path to carrier partnerships for its flagship devices," IHS Markit said in a statement.. MICROSOFT GOES AFTER WINDOWS 'SCAREWARE' THAT TRIES TO PRESSURE YOU FOR PAYMENT. Chinese had an early focus on telecom as a strategic industry because of the intelligence advantages it confers," he added.. "ZTE is proud of the innovation and security of our products in the US ZTE spokesperson told Fox News. "As a publicly traded company, we are committed to adhering to all applicable laws and regulations of the United States, work with carriers to pass strict testing protocols, and adhere to the highest business standards.". . Huawei has yet to respond to a request for comment.. This story has been updated to include ZTE's comments.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 