ill not run for president in 2020 saying God hasn't told her to run. Will Joy Behar and other hosts of "The View" mock Oprah's faith as they recently did with Vice President Mike Pence?. Winfrey told that she was simply looking to give a good speech at the Globes and that God would make the decision if she decided to run for office.. God actually wanted me to run, wouldn't God kinda tell me? And I haven't heard that," Winfrey said.. Behar, an outspoken liberal, mocked Pence after hearing that he allegedly takes direction from Jesus.. mean to offend people but apparently I keep doing she said. was a So, will Behar about liberal icon Winfrey suffering from mental illness? doubtful.. Media Research Center Vice President Dan Gainor told Fox News that think it's OK to make fun of Christians as long as it's but they typically backpedal when called out on it.. turn around and claim it was a joke, as Joy Behar Gainor said. think Christians like Oprah basically are 'anything-goes' and that is what the media thinks religion should be. Sin isn't bad, they argue. Believing in sin Behar came under fire for mocking religious views and the Media Research Center emailed supporters on Thursday morning with a message titled, let ABC get away with The email reiterated the offensive comments made by Behar and co-host stating, need to stand up against these bullies and bigots and let them know that we will not stand for such disgraceful and prejudiced The comments also resulted in media experts calling for ABC to pull from the news division, which claims to be an unbiased broadcast operation but typically allows four outspoken liberal panelists to team up against one conservative.. Meanwhile, God may not have encouraged Oprah to run for office yet, the liberal elite seem to tingle at the thought.. "I had a lot of wealthy men calling, telling me that they would run my campaign and raise $1 billion for me," Winfrey said. "I think that when you have that many people whose opinions you value coming at you, it's worthy of thinking about.". at what Oprah said exactly: If God wanted her to run, he would have told her. That's precisely the attitude mocked referring to Vice President Mike Pence. But Oprah is on the left-wing team, so there's no Gainor said.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 