lyst Jacqui Cooper, left, came under scrutiny for appearing to say Chinese athletes look the At right is Chinese skier Xu Mengtao.
                                    
                                        An Australian Olympics commentator was savaged on social media after she appeared to say Chinese athletes look the nicely done, great control, very Chinese. They all look the same; very hard to tell Cooper said.. Social media users almost immediately took to Twitter to call out the anchor for her remarks.. OLYMPIC FANS CONFUSED, UPSET WITH NBC FOR NOT AIRING HISTORIC FIGURE SKATING MOMENT IN PRIME- TIME BROADCAST. Cooper with the casual racism whilst commentating on Olympics all look the in regards to Chinese aerials one person tweeted.. Another wrote: now aerials commentator Jacqui Cooper is wishing she could retreat recent comment about Chinese athlete. I know what she meant to Cooper should be removed from Olympic coverage. Blatantly racist. In addition, I could pass on hearing the favoritism. Why not just some gold old fashioned unbiased another commenter wrote.. Some people defended the Olympic athlete-turned-analyst and said she was only attempting to describe the jumping styles -- though they admitted the comment came out wrong.. Cooper was talking about their jumping style, not their looks. Calm a social media user wrote.. OLYMPIC SNOWBOARDER BREAKS NECK AFTER FALL IN COMPETITION. Another tweeted: there are people out there who think Jacqui Cooper was talking about something other than jumping style? Spare me, please.". Wait, there are people out there who think Jacqui Cooper was talking about something other than jumping style? Spare me, please.. Cooper eventually took to social media to try to clear things up.. finished the Aerials, noticed a whole bunch of comments about my remarks regarding the Chinese. I need to make it clear I was talking about the jump. Chinese are trained by one coach with one technique, their aim is all to jump the same. Bring on the final tomorrow Cooper wrote.. Fox News learns some surprising facts about the jumper's uniform from New York Ski Educational Foundation coach and veteran ski jumper, Colin Delaney.. The station also backed up explanation and said the comment was not meant to be or commentary of the Aerials, commentator Jacqui Cooper, a former Olympian and World Champion, noted that aerial maneuver was, in a technical and style sense, very Chinese. Meaning that the whole of the Chinese aerial team are trained in the same way and the maneuver referenced was a classic, technically perfect, trademark of that style. At no time was the commentary racist, intended to racist or the station wrote in a statement.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 