of summit with South Korea, no word if they are open to talks with the U.S.. In a major concession, Vice President Mike Pence has announced the Trump administration is willing to talk to North Korea without preconditions. Previously, the administration insisted that before negotiations could begin, the North had to agree to honor a previous commitment to not maintain an arsenal of nuclear weapons.. At the same time, Pence said South Korean President Moon Jae-in had pledged to continue the pressure campaign against the North Koreans until, in words, they actually doing something that the alliance believes represents a meaningful step toward The North is unlikely to engage in substantive negotiations with Washington in the next few months, so promise to talk may not mean much as a practical matter. But he did get a valuable pledge from Moon.. And there is another benefit from the exchange of promises. Pence and Moon avoided a split between their countries, which have been bound by a formal seven-decade-old alliance. They came up with a as the Post aptly put it.. American policymakers worry about a breakdown in relations with South Korea, despite saying their alliance was in And there is a real cause for the concern.. While the United States insists on the of North Korea, Moon apparent objective is unification of South Korea with North Korea. The American and South Korean goals, as a practical matter, clash.. Moon acts as if he believes that if South Korea unconditionally provides aid and assistance to Pyongyang for long enough, the North will eventually come around. That generous concept is at the heart of the Peace and Prosperity Policy of President Roh Moo-hyun, who governed the South from 2003 to 2008. Moon was chief of staff.. The providing of assistance to the North fundamentally undermines the approach of the Trump administration, a plan to make sure North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un does not have money for launching missiles, detonating nuclear bombs and engaging in the giving of luxury items to senior regime elements to buy loyalty.. No wonder Kim launched an Olympics and invited Moon to Pyongyang for what would be the third inter-Korean summit. He undoubtedly remembers that his father, Kim Jong Il, extracted an estimated $500 million in cash, under the table, from then-South Korean President Kim Dae Jung for agreeing to the historic first summit in 2000.. So despite his sweeping promise to Pence, do not expect Moon, on his own, to abandon the North.. Yet Moon, 65, does not have a free hand. His brand of Korean nationalism, which has widespread appeal in his left-leaning generation, is becoming unpopular at home, especially among the young.. Younger South Koreans generally see their society as separate from the North, not, as Moon envisions it, as one portion of a temporarily divided Korea.. And younger South Koreans have a point. The destitute, horrific North Korea shows up last in most metrics. South Korea is almost always near the top.. For instance, the South in 2016 produced $1.34 trillion of gross domestic product. North Korea managed just $28.5 billion. South per capita GDP that year was more than 20 times larger than that of the North. The per capita income in 2016 was 4.5 percent of the But it is not just a question of economics as the Koreas have developed along starkly different lines. The customs and culture of the democratic South are almost unrecognizable from those of the totalitarian North.. Those who have escaped the North and found their way to the South almost always have great difficulty adjusting from a totalitarian society to a free one. Some never are able to make the transition and, incredibly, return to the North.. This gulf between the two Koreas means the Trump administration has allies in South Korean society: those who do not want to see unification with a land they consider strange. And that means Washington, with its messaging, should be targeting the people of South Korea so that they will prevent their president from shoveling cash to Kim Jong Un and undermine international efforts to get Kim to abandon his nuclear weapons.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 