Disneyland went into effect on Sunday.
                                    
                                        Price hikes at Disneyland and Disney World took effect over the weekend, making the already pricey theme parks even more expensive for families and fans.. tickets, for use on the least busy days, will remain at $97.. DISNEY WILL ALLOW CERTAIN GUESTS TO BUY MORE FASTPASSES. Over at Disney World, peak tickets for the Magic Kingdom will now cost $123 and $129 per child or adult, respectively. and tickets will also cost more, putting the price of a ticket at $113 per child and $119 per adult (a $4 increase in both cases), and the price of a ticket at $103 and $109 respectively.. Prices for other parks within Walt Disney World also jumped, including those for Epcot, Hollywood Studios and the Animal Kingdom, per the Associated Press.. if you hear a shattering sound in the distance my heart reacting to the price of Disneyland tickets. Disneyland is raising the ticket price higher and honestly that is not fair for those who can't afford it. I've never been to Disneyland or any Disney amusement parks and I really want to go but now it seems impossible since I'm not rich to afford even one ticket.. News of price hikes was naturally met with disappointment on social media, with Twitter users calling the new tickets and lamenting the decision.. DISNEY RESORTS MAKES DECISION ABOUT 'DO NOT DISTURB' SIGNS. Disney, meanwhile, has said that it will continue to its pricing model to better suit guests.. "We know how important making memories at Disney theme parks is to families and we will continue to evolve our pricing in a way that gives families a range of options to meet their budget and helps better spread attendance throughout the year so they can make the most of every said Disney spokesperson Andrea Finger in a statement to Fox News.. Disney originally introduced flexible pricing in Oct. 2015 as a way to encourage guests to visit at less busy times, resulting in its and pricing model, the AP reported.. Officials said on Sunday that date-specific tickets with prices published in advance will be the next pricing model to roll out at Walt Disney World.. "Given the small percentage of guests that purchase a 1-day ticket at Walt Disney World, extending pre-published, date-specific pricing to multi-day tickets will further advance our efforts spread to attendance throughout the year and ensure all guests have a magical experience no matter when they visit," said Finger.. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS. The Associated Press contributed to this report.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 