, settled a lawsuit with sexual assault victims. 
                                    
                                        A prestigious Hawaii school has agreed to pay $80 million to former students sexually abused by a psychiatrist spanning for decades.. According to reports, school officials threated students showing signs of behavioral issues that they must see a psychiatrist or risk expulsion.. Students were then driven to office at St. Francis Hospital by teachers where they say they were drugged and sexually assaulted. In court documents, students said he would psychologically them during in his HAWAII MAN ADMITS PUNCHING POLICE OUTSIDE BUCKINGHAM PALACE. The lawsuit stated a handful of students came forward to school officials regarding the abuse, but were told to remain quiet and nothing was done.. The $80 million settlement will go to the 34 plaintiffs named in the suit who accused the school of to protect them and covering up years of On Thursday, Jack Wong, the CEO, apologized to the victims.. one was prepared for the horrific revelation that our (students) were secretly abused and physically and emotionally traumatized from 1962-1984 by Dr. Robert Browne, Chief of Psychiatry at St. Francis Hospital. And, after abuses were reported, not nearly enough was done. Kamehameha Schools is deeply and truly he said.. UNITED AIRLINES PASSENGERS RATTLED AFTER ENGINE SHELL FALLS OFF. In the lawsuit, the victims stated they were to masturbate in front of Browne, in oral sex and be penetrated with One of the victims was and by Browne when he was 11 years old, the lawsuit stated. The doctor told the boys it was A few of the victims came forward stating they suffered from depression, substance abuse issues and some committed suicide following the abuse from Browne.. Loy revealed to the Hawaii News Now what he told the doctor in 1991, the day before he shot himself in the head.. starts breaking down and crying on the Loy told Hawaii News Now. sorry. doing this crybaby thing on the phone. I said, not sorry for what you did, sorry for getting The school was expected to file a lawsuit against St. Francis Healthcare System, where Browne was employed, and where the victims went for Gerald Carrell, one of Browne's victims, told Hawaii News Now he was proud of the men who came forward.. "People mistake the fact that we're asking for money for some kind of vendetta we have against the school, but I think a lot of people just don't understand ... I can't get those 50 years back. We can't change our past," he said.. "I'm excited that the with me to do this ... that we stood together and we were strong.". This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 