an begin to emerge. Fox News' Rob Schmitt provides details from Parkland, Florida.. The suspected gunman who killed 17 at a Florida high school Wednesday afternoon attempted to fire at fleeing students from the building's third-floor windows, but the high-impact windows didn't shatter, a state senator said.. Cruz set off fire alarms during the incident, luring hundreds of students out of their classrooms so he could open fire with a semi-automatic AR-15 assault rifle.. After firing several rounds, Cruz dropped his weapon and hid among the crowd as authorities evacuated students and faculty members from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.. Cruz was charged Thursday with 17 counts of premeditated others were wounded in the shooting, including several with life-threatening injuries.. Below is a timeline of events that detail how the shooting unfolded.. 2:19 p.m.. An Uber car dropped off Cruz at the school at approximately 2:19 P.M., Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel revealed at a news conference Thursday afternoon.. "The suspect entered the east stairwell, that's building 12, with a rifle inside a black soft case," he said. "The suspect exited the stairwell [and] pulled the rifle out of the case.". 2:21 p.m.. Cruz, according to Israel, then "readied his rifle and began shooting into rooms 1215, 1216, 1214. He went back to 1216, back to 1215 and then to 1213.". Cruz, he revealed, "took the west stairwell to the second floor," where he shot one person in room 1234. The gunfire lasted a three-minute span, according to the sheriff.. Israel said Cruz "took the east stairwell to the third floor. He dropped his rifle and backpack [and] ran down the stairs.". Cruz eventually left the building with others who were trying to escape. He ran towards the tennis courts and then took a southbound turn, the sheriff said.. After the shooting, Cruz went to a Walmart and purchased a drink at a Subway before leaving the Walmart, according to Israel, though he couldn't give an exact time this occurred. Cruz then headed to a McDonald's and "sat down for a short period of time.". 2:35 p.m.. Students were allegedly texting about a shooter at the school.. 2:53 p.m.. 2:55 p.m.. WSVN, a local news station, reported that there were at least five people injured at the school.. 2:56 p.m.. The office warned the public to the area of Stoneman Douglas as authorities investigated reports of an active shooter.. 3:01 p.m.. Cruz left McDonald's at exactly 3:01 p.m., according to Israel.. 3:10 p.m.. 3:11 p.m.. The office tweeted the shooter was still at large.. 3:36 p.m.. Broward Schools said the school was on lockdown after students and faculty heard what sounded like gunfire.. Today, close to Marjory Stoneman Douglas High dismissal, students and staff heard what sounded like gunfire. The school immediately went on lockdown but is now dismissing students. We are receiving reports of possible multiple injuries. Law enforcement is on site.. 3:40 p.m.. Broward Schools began dismissing students from the school.. are receiving reports of possible multiple the school district tweeted. enforcement and the Special Investigative Unit are currently on Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School is now dismissing students. We are receiving reports of possible multiple injuries. Law enforcement and the Special Investigative Unit are currently on site. The District will provide updates as more information becomes available.. 3:41 p.m.. A Coconut Creek police officer detained Cruz in Coral Springs, located about a mile away from the school, and he was "taken into custody without said.. 3:50 p.m.. My prayers and condolences to the families of the victims of the terrible Florida shooting. No child, teacher or anyone else should ever feel unsafe in an American school.. 4:11 p.m.. 4:22 p.m.. 4:27 p.m.. The suspected shooter was taken to a local hospital.. 4:50 p.m.. Our worst fears are being realized. It looks like a number of fatalities. Praying for all those students, families and school members affected at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.. 4:59 p.m.. Israel confirmed the shooter was not a current student at Stoneman Douglas High School.. Sheriff Israel, "The shooter was not a current student.". In a separate tweet, the office said that SWAT teams were still clearing the school.. 5:39 p.m.. Students began to reunite with their parents.. Parents and families of Westglades Middle School can now pick-up students at the school. Pine Island Road has been blocked by law enforcement. Parents should enter from Coral Ridge Drive via Holmberg Road.. 6:27 p.m.. Sheriff Israel said 17 people were killed in the shooting.. 6:29 p.m.. 8:24 p.m.. 7:12 a.m.. Trump urges the public to always report suspicious behavior to authorities.. So many signs that the Florida shooter was mentally disturbed, even expelled from school for bad and erratic behavior. Neighbors and classmates knew he was a big problem. Must always report such instances to authorities, again and again!. 10:49 a.m.. "Suspect has been charged with 17 counts of premeditated murder."-Sheriff Scott Israel.. 11:22 a.m.. He vowed to work with state and local leaders to help our schools and tackle the difficult issue of mental 2:00 p.m.. 4:43 p.m.. Fox Shira Bush and Kathleen Joyce contributed to this report. The Associated Press also contributed to this report.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 