WATCH: FNC's 'Scandalous' Looks Back at Clintons' Alleged Involvement in 'Whitewater'. Attorney for Uranium One Informant: Clintons 'Can Attack All They Want,' My Client Has the Truth. With Washington D.C. at the center of a media Bill Clinton admitted before a grand jury - despite earlier denials - that he had an "improper physical relationship" with Lewinsky.. After months of investigating, the "Starr Report" was loaded into boxes and delivered to Congress.. You'll hear how the famous blue dress played into the investigation and was key to an eventual immunity agreement for the young White House intern.. Watch the preview clips above and check out part of last week's show below.. Stay connected with the most-watched, most-trusted name in news.. Follow us to stay updated with the latest content from Fox News Channel!. The indictment of 13 Russians and three Russian companies for allegedly interfering in the 2016 presidential election shows that former President Obama's administration lost sight of Russia, according to Republican National Committee Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel.. Jesse Watters reacted to a federal grand jury on Friday indicting 13 Russians and three Russian companies for allegedly interfering in the 2016 presidential election.. Former FBI Assistant Director Ron Hosko joined Neil Cavuto on "Your World" on Friday to react to revelations the bureau ignored a tip about Nikolas Cruz, who killed 17 when he opened fire at a Florida high school on Valentine's Day.. A former federal prosecutor said the 37-page indictment of 13 Russians for allegedly interfering in the 2016 election reveals how well-coordinated, organized and effective Moscow's campaign was.. Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi reacts to the latest in the school shooting investigation.. Tomi Lahern and Jesse take a deeper look at "The View" mocking Mike Pence's Christian faith.. From housing and families to coaching and motivating, Ben Carson and Lou Holtz detail their plans to save inner cities.. Some news outlets think North Korea won gold at the Olympics. Greg holds their feet to the torch.. Stay connected with the most-watched, most-trusted name in news. 