ng Google I/O Conference at Moscone Center in San Francisco, California June 28, 2012. (REUTERS/Stephen Lam). Scams that hijack the world's most popular browser, Google Chrome, are making the rounds again.. It starts fake error message. For computer users, this is a vexing problem because the underlying malicious code locks browser. "The bug that it triggers is more than just an annoyance in the sense that it will render your Chrome browser Jerome Segura, Lead Intelligence Analyst at Malwarebytes, told Fox News.. our tests, it also caused the operating system (Windows) to become unstable if we let it run for a certain amount of Segura said, adding that Google is looking into the issue.. MICROSOFT GOES AFTER WINDOWS 'SCAREWARE' THAT TRIES TO PRESSURE YOU FOR PAYMENT. Google has not yet responded to a Fox News request for comment.. After the malicious code locks the browser, the fake warning tries to trick a user into calling a number. Then, a person posing as a company from, for example, a well-known American technology asks for sensitive personal or financial information to fix the bogus issue.. where it does become a serious issue for the Goddijn, executive vice president at Risk Based Security, told Fox News. "These messages are purposely designed to cause fear and provoke users into turning over sensitive information or in some cases even control of their computer. From there, the scammers really are in the driver's There are other variants of the scam too. For example, one that also locks up the browser offers fake deals, such as a gift card.. Other browsers can be affected too, but since Chrome is the most widely used web browser outpacing Microsoft Edge, Safari and Firefox it has been the place where many users come across the problem.. X, THE RESEARCH LAB FOUNDED BY GOOGLE, TARGETS CYBERCRIME AND 'OVERLOOKED' HACKING THREATS. Is there a fix?. There are fixes to the issue, but they vary depending on the scam.. In Windows, you can use the Task Manager to and terminate the browser. In macOS, users "force quit" a process, such as a browser.. In some cases, however, users have to reset their browser so it won't open to the last opened page. Otherwise message will keep returning and locking up the browser.. No legitimate company will lock up your browser. Finally, important to remember that no legitimate company would ever intentionally freeze a browser and force a user to reveal sensitive personal information.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 