unty sets up pop up marriage license bureau at Vegas airport.. It doesn't get anymore "Vegas" than this.. Just in time for Day, arriving passengers to McCarran airport in Sin City can now apply for a marriage license as they are waiting to get their bags from the carousel.. The Clark County Marriage License Bureau has set up a temporary kiosk in the baggage terminal for would-be husbands and wives to obtain their marriage certificate.. Clark County is the wedding capitol of the world, issuing the most marriage licenses throughout the year in the U.S. -- amounting to almost 80,000 a year on average.. issue more licenses in the days leading up to Day than we do throughout the Day being on a Wednesday this year, not expecting it to be as big as it has in other said Paula Cook, a marriage services supervisor for the County. So far, however, almost 200 licenses have been issued.. Not to be confused with the actual wedding ceremony, no vows will be said at the actual airport. Only the license itself will be issued. Cook said there were some misconceptions about that particular detail.. Fox News did witness one couple signing up for their license. Christie Estrada and Hector Castaneda from Bishop, Texas came across the outpost as they were retrieving their luggage.. were just walking, we were going to get a taxi and we saw the sign. It saved us a lot of time so we can go said Castaneda.. They are planning to get married at a chapel in with 12 members of their family and friends attending.. Cook described some of the couples that used the quick hitch services.. had a very interesting couple that came from Texas that were on an eleven-hour layover and they said we're just here to go zip lining and we're going to get married while so that was kind of Cook said.. Licenses cost $77 and Cook says 2018 has many notable days for couples looking to tie the knot.. Those include the day of the royal wedding between Prince Harry and Meghan Markle on May 19th and Aug. 18th, because the wedding certificate will read "8/18/18." In numerology circles that is considered a palindrome, which is a number sequence that reads the same forward and backward.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 