wedding date presents potential scheduling conflict for Prince William.. Meghan Markle has never been interested in getting the royal treatment.. The actress, who is engaged to Prince Harry, has always preferred to maintain her natural features in Hollywood and her former makeup artist and hairstylist insisted the world should expect the same after the American beauty ties the knot later this spring.. Sellers, who worked with the 36-year-old for two years before she moved overseas to be with her insisted Markle was never interested in looking like the typical Hollywood star.. done such a good job of maintaining her sense of self amongst the she explained. now, her look has stayed the same. throw her hair back in a low bun and it actually looks like done it herself, and beautiful and chic because so confident. the great thing about Meghan so confident with herself and her look, and she sticks with Markle also reportedly rely on a glam squad to ensure she was always picture-perfect. A former lifestyle blogger, Markle knew which beauty products best enhanced her features, whether she was in front of cameras or not.. is very in-the-know she had her blog for a while, so she just gets said Sellers. her approach is very effortless. She just wants to look like a better version of herself. something she believes firmly stuck to the same sleek look since known said Sellers. say, give me a slight bend or a slight wave. Nothing too We styled her hair down a lot the look she gravitates toward. It could be straight or wavy or anything else, but she likes it down. So if it a royal wedding, I think what she would castings, I was labeled she said. I Latina? Sephardic? Add the freckles to the mix and it created quite the conundrum.. fact that I fell in love with Meghan so incredibly quickly was confirmation to me that all the stars were said the 33-year-old. beautiful woman just tripped and fell into my life, I fell into her life. I know that she will be unbelievably good at the job part of it as This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 