fe sailing around the world had the wind taken out of their sails when their boat capsized nearly two days into their trip.
                                    
                                        Damaske/Tampa Bay Times via AP). A plan for a better life has been sunk.. Nikki Walsh, 24, and boyfriend Tanner Broadwell, 26, decided nearly a year ago that they were tired of working.. of the work you do goes to your home. There has to be another she added.. So the Colorado couple sold all their furniture and their SUV and purchased a 49-year-old boat in Alabama to live on and eventually sail the world in.. ROYAL CARIBBEAN CRUISE ARRIVES IN SAN DIEGO AFTER 24 PEOPLE SICKENED WITH VIRUS. The couple moved onto the 28-foot boat, which was in the marina of Tarpon Springs, a town on Gulf Coast, and lived there for months with their two-year-old pug, Remy, while they stocked up on food and supplies.. were pretty Walsh said, of gathering items to last them for their planned trip to the Caribbean.. However, the two were not prepared for what happened next.. Nearly two days into their venture, the boat capsized in a channel of water called Pass.. thought the channel was where we were going, but it Walsh told the Post, telling the publication they were armed with GPS and paper navigation charts.. Local boat captains say the sandbars often shift in Pass, the Post reported.. started freaking out because waves were coming, and it was tossing our boat back and Walsh recalled.. Broadwell was at the rear of the boat, holding onto Remy when the trouble hit.. hands were shaking. We were she said.. Before abandoning ship, Walsh said they grabbed some clothes and important documents, as well as things for their dog.. also grabbed food and just about everything he said Walsh. deserve to go without his favorite Walsh admitted she and her boyfriend, who used to drive for Uber, were to FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS. The pair are seeking $10,000 to rescue the ship, which sunk off the coast of Madeira Beach, FL. Walsh said raising the boat alone will cost at least $6,700.. have a lot of family helping us, but hard when lost Walsh told The Post from Jacksonville, where the couple is staying with loved ones.. Though the pair seem down and out, they still plan to or salvage another at some point and try try Walsh writes on the GoFundMe.. only have one life. Why spend it doing what you love. Money Walsh told the Post.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 