gun control as President Trump stresses the need to address America's mental health issues; reaction from Jamie Weinstein, host of the 'Jamie Weinstein Show' on National Review, and Ethan Bearman, radio talk host show and author.. Gun control advocates are only too sure that they occupy the moral high ground. In the aftermath of the Parkland, Florida high school shooting that left 17 dead, they are accusing their opponents of having on their Gun control new hot number is that there have been 18 school shootings so far this year, but this is a gross exaggeration.. To get 18, one has to count all instances from kindergarten through college where a gun was fired on or near school property. This includes a case of a police officer accidentally discharging his gun, as well as suicides such as that of a 31-year-old military veteran with no connection to the school who killed himself in the school parking lot.. Excluding suicides, there have only been five cases where someone was actually shot at a K-12 school. Four actually involved a gun being fired on school property, and two of those resulted in fatalities.. In fact, gun control proposals would do more harm than good. They are the ones opposing life-saving laws.. Every time there's a mass public shooting, gun control advocates call for more background checks. President Obama did so each time he spoke after a mass public shooting. Gun control advocates like to think this is a magic solution that would have prevented massacre.. The proposed background check laws wouldn't have prevented the attack in Florida, nor any other mass public shooting happened in the 21st century.. But the background checks come at a real cost, ranging from $55 in Oregon to $125 in New York City and Washington, D.C.. With millions of mistaken denials because of the checks have confused the names of law-abiding good citizens with those who really are prohibited from owning guns. It is the most vulnerable people poor minorities who are kept from being able to protect themselves and their families.. But many on the terrorist watch list are not suspected of being terrorist threats, and of the 2,000 people who have bought guns, not a single one has been accused of using a gun in a crime. The bill prohibiting such purchases never got passed because the Democrats want to pass it.. Democrats said that the time limit was too short. But instead of proposing a longer time period, they fought against any judicial review.. Others mention a new assault weapon ban, but even research funded by the Clinton administration concluded that the previous ban and limit on magazine size had discernible reduction in the lethality and injuriousness of gun Those who are blaming the Florida attack on large capacity magazines that can hold more bullets understand how quickly magazines can be changed or how incredibly easy they are to make.. But while Democrats keep pushing for gun control laws that help, they discuss the one change that might have made a difference: abolishing gun-free zones, where the defenselessness of general citizens is guaranteed by law.. It is hard to ignore that all the mass public shootings in Florida including the Orlando nightclub, the Orlando RV business, the Fort Lauderdale Airport, the Hialeah restaurant, as well as at the high school were places where guns are banned.. These killers might be crazy, but they stupid. They want to kill as many people as possible. Killers in attacks including the Charleston church, the Colorado movie theater and Santa Barbara, California explained that they picked defenseless targets where they knew no one would have a gun.. What is interesting is that even though gun control advocates are refusing the types of policies that will really save lives, they are claiming that others blood on their That same language been used against them. Maybe it should be.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 