sing eyebrows for mocking Vice President Mike Pence's Christian faith and comparing it to mental illness. Pence himself fired back at the comedian and ABC News saying the comment "is just wrong.". Is believing in God a sign of mental illness? Is praying a silly exercise in make-believe just a big waste of time and a delusional activity?. Such comments are an insult to everyone who holds sincere religious beliefs.. Pence is right. No matter what you think of his politics, his views on public policy issues, or his performance in elective office, he should not be criticized for his Christian beliefs.. The pile-on started when played a segment of Big in which former White House staffer Omarosa Manigault Newman said that Americans should be worried about Pence because he thinks Jesus speaks to him.. In response to the video segment, panelist Sunny Hostin questioned the sincerity of religious beliefs, while panelist Joy Behar suggested that Pence might have a mental illness.. one thing to talk to Behar said. another thing when Jesus talks to Media outlets and social media critics immediately piled on Pence, with many of them putting the worst possible spin on faith and prayer life.. What the media and critics done, and do, is to point out that their attacks on Pence are part of a larger and very disturbing trend in American life an ugly form of prejudice called Christian shaming.. remarks were met with a wave of social media outrage.. We also experienced this sort of Christian shaming when social media flash mobs mocked evangelicals who had called on our nation to pray in the aftermath of terrible shootings (like the one in Parkland, Florida on Wednesday), natural disasters and other harrowing events that have unfolded in recent years.. In the view of these Twitter activists, a tweets about prayer are simply a means of avoiding the issue instead of acting upon it.. Similarly, former NFL player Tim Tebow was often criticized and mocked for openly kneeling in prayer and expressing his Christian faith. He wore Bible verses on his eye black in college. He was not embarrassed to be a Christian he was proud to proclaim his belief in Christ.. In response to Christian shaming, Americans should be clear about two things.. First, there is nothing in the world wrong with being Christian in public. For Christians, our beliefs are deeply held convictions that should shape our identities, organize our lives, and motivate us to be good neighbors and citizens.. There is nothing wrong with Mike Pence, Tim Tebow, Nick Foles, or Tony Dungy making a connection between their faith and their public lives.. Thank God, we do not have a government-mandated religion we all must follow. Our varying religious beliefs or non-beliefs are not something we must hide or engage in secretly, behind closed doors, in the United States. Just as it would be wrong, un-American and unconstitutional to require an elected official to be an observant Christian, it is just as wrong to discriminate against an elected official like Vice President Pence for following a religion.. And why should NBC or its viewers care if Tebow, Dungy or Foles identify as Christians? Would they have the same reaction to somebody on television who identified as Muslim, Buddhist, Hindu or Jewish? As an atheist?. Similarly, there is nothing wrong with public prayer as a response to a harrowing event. The critics might think our calls to prayer are a way of avoiding the issue. But for our part, turn the criticism around and say that our prayers are a more powerful form of activism than their social media flash-mobbing.. In fact, our obedience to the biblical command to pray is more important than the sum total of our tweets, radio shows and opinion pieces.. In the same way, there is nothing wrong with our quest for religious liberty, no matter what Chairman Castro says. That is why our Founding Fathers enshrined the free exercise of religion in the First Amendment of the United States Constitution.. Second, critics who shame Christians for being religious in public need to realize that they the critics are religious people who practice their religions in public, even if they notice it.. In other words, every human being ascribes ultimate worth to something or someone to some person, ideal or ideology. If it is not God, it may be sex, money or power. Or anything else. Fill in the blank.. Every person is religious in this sense of the word, and every functional religion will exercise a significant influence on his or her public life.. So embrace it. stop shaming people for being transparent, for articulating publicly what they believe privately. And start admiring them for putting their cards on the table, letting the rest of us see what it is that motivates them, and what makes all of us who we are.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 