, file photo, a man demonstrates how he enters his Facebook page as he works on his computer at a restaurant in Brasilia, Brazil. Facebook users will soon see more local news and more posts from friends and family as the company tries to give users more social as CEO Mark Zuckerberg said recently. (AP Photo/Eraldo Peres, File)
                                    
                                        2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.). And now, a federal grand jury has indicted 13 Russian nationals and 3 Russian entities accused of violating U.S. law for interfering in U.S. elections, including the Internet Research Agency.. UNILEVER THREATENS FACEBOOK, GOOGLE WITH ONLINE ADVERTISING CUTS. According to a source familiar with the social network's thinking, Facebook's research links its September findings back to the Internet Research Agency.. Additionally, Facebook said it found approximately $50,000 in "potentially politically related ad spending," was spent on approximately 2,200 ads.. MORE TROUBLE FOR FACEBOOK AS SEATTLE CLAIMS IT VIOLATED CAMPAIGN FINANCE LAW. In depth on the IRA. "A journalist who is a leading expert on the Internet Research Agency claimed that some social media accounts that appear to be tied to professional they previously were devoted to supporting Russian actions in to advocate for President-elect Trump as early as December 2015," the report read.. The report also mentioned that the financial backer of the Internet Research Agency may have ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin. "The likely financier of the so-called Internet Research Agency of professional trolls located in Saint Petersburg is a close Putin ally with ties to Russian intelligence," it said.. According to a transcript with a former Internet Research Agency employee that has been translated, the trolls are hard at work, leaving their crumbs around the internet.. FACEBOOK, GOOGLE, TWITTER OPEN UP TO CONGRESS ABOUT RUSSIAN MISINFORMATION. Other involvement. This is not the first time the Internet Research Agency has been in the spotlight.. Eric founding partner of deep web analysis company GIPEC, told Fox News last year that not surprised by discovery. am not surprised are using Facebook Advertising to information since Facebook does verify who is signing a Facebook Account and who is buying ads," Feinberg This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 