(Courtesy of the authors). It was the evening of November 7, 2000, and Americans were glued to their TV sets for the results of the presidential election. We were home with our 2-week-old daughter and as the country was debating and arguing over the disputed race, we were debating over a marriage hanging on by a thread.. On the day of our wedding we had no doubt that we would have the perfect marriage, but less than five years later our relationship was on the brink of disaster.. In the middle of 2001, we came to a tipping point. We had to make a change. We prayed to God for help and both sensed him asking you willing to do whatever it takes to have the marriage you have always hoped and dreamed of having?. We had tried a few things, but not everything. We had not gone to counseling, humbled ourselves to each other or sought forgiveness, and we had not taken the time to learn what we needed to make our marriage a success. Once we gave up our right to be right and both determined that whatever it took, then we saw hope.. For us, the hardest part of marriage is humility. But by putting in the time and effort, and by making small intentional choices to love each other well every single day, made great strides in the humility department. Here are what a few of those choices look like:. 1) We started spending more time listening to each other as well as accepting and appreciating the differences between us.. 2) Each day we decided that our happiness was not dependent on each other. Instead our happiness was a choice that we made, not a feeling.. 3) We became more transparent, honest and open with our communication instead of playing the mind games that would add to our frustration.. Our pastor, Joel Osteen, has said that healing for your relationship begins with We agree more.. Humility is choosing love over hate, kindness over harshness, and to forgive instead of holding onto the past. When you and your spouse choose to humble yourselves, on the right path to having the marriage you've always hoped and dreamed of having.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 