was stationed in Germany during World War II.
                                    
                                        WAGNER / AMERICAN-STATESMAN). For nearly six decades, Andy Carver, an Army veteran, bought his wife a bouquet of flowers every week.. He picked up fresh flowers for her every Friday. Sometimes it would be white carnations her favorite or it would be roses, which were his.. mixed it quite a he said. just loved it, and I just loved to see her smile. I loved to make her It was a long tradition that ended last March, when his wife, Brigitte, died at a hospice due to complications from a stroke.. But Carver, 84, figured out a new way to continue his tradition by buying flowers, each week, for people at his retirement community in Texas.. He said his new tradition began when one of his neighbors at Lakeline Oaks Retirement Resort in Cedar Park was ill and he decided to take the neighbor a bouquet of roses. It cheered up the neighbor.. told my daughters), I think it would make me feel good if I would do that every week for Carver said.. ARMY VETERAN THWARTS ARMED 'BATMAN' ROBBER IN CASINO. Carver met his future wife at a restaurant in Rudesheim, Germany more than 50 years ago. He was stationed with the Army in a neighboring town and she was a German native working as a nurse in Frankfurt.. He approach her at the restaurant, but luckily bumped into her at a pub a little later. He was not going to pass on the chance and asked her to dance.. went out on the dance floor, and I started with my limited vocabulary of spoken he recalled. laughed, and we hit it He said she was prettiest girl in NURSING HOME'S FAREWELL FOR VETERAN GOES VIRAL. On their first date, he brought her a bouquet of flowers. He continued that tradition throughout their 59-year marriage.. Now, every Friday, he buys a bouquet for one his neighbors during happy hour. He has given out 35 bouquets.. beautiful. gorgeous. nice to be said resident Billie Tips, 93, who recently received a bouquet for her upcoming birthday. put a smile on my This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 