s takes an unlikely route and goes nude in the wake of the #MeToo movement.. Over the years, the SI Swimsuit Issue has tried various tactics to appear as if it is has a higher purpose than giving men a little excitement.. The magazine has featured photos of an extremely attractive plus-size model and an extremely attractive amputee. And in the most recent issue, it features women with powerful slogans written across their bare bodies in a nod to #MeToo, which describes itself as a to help survivors of sexual an odd moment for the Swimsuit Issue.. On one hand, the #MeToo movement is about the issues of harassment, assault and women being devalued and victimized. Yet the women posing for the magazine are choosing to do so and getting paid.. But on the other hand, so much of what #MeToo has come to symbolize is that women just objects to be looked at. The continuing perception of women as sex objects existing for pleasure is what has led to a culture that devalues women in the workplace and treats them like pieces of meat.. So when Aly Raisman, Hunter McGrady, Robyn Lawley, Sailor Brinkley Cook and Paulina Porizkova pose naked with words written on their bodies in the latest Swimsuit Issue, is it empowering or just more objectification?. a noble goal, to be proud of yourself and the way you look. naive, though, to imagine that most readers of the Swimsuit Issue, the large majority of whom are men, are picking up the issue to see empowered women.. The Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue exist to portray women as whole beings, with thoughts and feelings. It exists to showcase them as eye candy.. This wrong, in and of itself. Women are allowed to show off their beauty. And women should have the power to take off their clothes if they want to, for money or fame or for their own enjoyment.. But not call it empowering just because there are some nice phrases written on a naked woman. Sports Illustrated knows very well that men are not looking at the pictures because they want to read the phrases.. Karol Markowicz is a columnist at the New York Post. She has also written for Time, USA Today, The Observer, Heat Street, Federalist, Daily Beast and elsewhere.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 