'Stop Lying to Us': Ingraham Blasts Durbin for 'Tired Trope' About Jobs Americans Won't Do. 'You're Going Insane on TV Right Now': Tucker Battles Clinton Adviser Over Trump-Russia. Ever wonder why CNN is always on TV when you're in a U.S. airport?. "Airports feel like a lesser version of hell with dirty seats, overpriced food and propaganda posing as news on CNN," said Carlson.. Carlson said this setup made sense 20 years when CNN had a "centrist reputation," but now the network "has strayed so far to the left, constantly promoting wacky Russia-related conspiracy Watch the clip above.. Morgan: 'Poisonous Viper' Omarosa Asked Me for Sex on 'Apprentice' to Try to 'Make Money'. Judge Nap on Porter Scandal: Was Background Check Info Kept From John Kelly?. Stay connected with the most-watched, most-trusted name in news.. Follow us to stay updated with the latest content from Fox News Channel!. Sen. Tim Scott (R-S.C.) responded to comments from Connecticut Democrat Richard Blumenthal, who said Republicans will only act to prevent gun violence if it means "mass losses" in elections.. Sean Hannity said the deputy attorney general's announcement concerning Russian interference in the 2016 election elicited a "collective gasp from liberals" because no Americans were implicated as willing participants.. Tucker Carlson debated Hollywood producer and actor Rob Reiner over President Trump and his response to the latest Russia probe revelations.. The indictment of 13 Russians and three Russian companies for allegedly interfering in the 2016 presidential election shows that former President Obama's administration lost sight of Russia, according to Republican National Committee Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel.. Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi reacts to the latest in the school shooting investigation.. Tomi Lahern and Jesse take a deeper look at "The View" mocking Mike Pence's Christian faith.. From housing and families to coaching and motivating, Ben Carson and Lou Holtz detail their plans to save inner cities.. Some news outlets think North Korea won gold at the Olympics. Greg holds their feet to the torch.. Stay connected with the most-watched, most-trusted name in news. 