an tear through cruise ships, classrooms, and other crowded spaces, like the Olympic village. Over a 100 cases of norovirus were confirmed around the sites of the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang. Here's what to know about the highly contagious disease.. Officials at the 2018 Winter Olympics are scrambling to contain the outbreak of a vomit-inducing, diarrhea-causing, extremely contagious stomach bug known as norovirus.. else is safe. We did everything we could. We took them away from the rest of the team and now they have to a spokesperson told the news agency.. In light of the norovirus, what you need to know.. While the symptoms can be severe, most people recover The norovirus, which has different strains, can spread easily in closed spaces, Jaykus said.. More specifically, however, the virus spreads through fecal matter and vomit.. When an infected person vomits or defecates, amounts [of the virus] are Jaykus explained. are millions to billions of particles in one just one only takes a few virus particles to make people she added.. The virus also spreads through food and contaminated water.. Food handlers who are sick and practice adequate hygiene can easily infect other water can also spread the illness, though this more commonly occurs in developing countries, Jaykus noted.. Unlike the flu and other illnesses, there is no vaccine to prevent norovirus.. washing is hugely important. In fact,  the single most important thing for people attending Olympics.". washing is hugely Jaykus said. the single most important thing for people attending she said.. The norovirus is extremely hard to kill, Jaykus warned. Inactivating the virus requires a high concentration of bleach. And while easy enough to clean countertops and other similar surfaces with bleach, the same be said for carpet and furniture. Alcohol strong enough to entirely kill the virus either, Jaykus added.. norovirus can be spread for said Jaykus, who added that quarantining infected people can also be useful in preventing the spread of norovirus.. The short answer: no one is sure.. Health officials in South Korea said that a preliminary five-day survey of water for cooking and drinking has come up negative for norovirus. Restaurants and all food facilities linked to the Olympics will also be inspected.. The Associated Press contributed to this report.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 