p's national security adviser has told an international audience that the evidence of Russian meddling in the 2016 American election is beyond dispute.. H.R. McMaster was answering a question from a Russian delegate, shortly after Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov left the same stage at the Munich Security Conference on Saturday.. Referring to the indictment of 13 Russians announced Friday, McMaster says "with the FBI indictment, the evidence is now incontrovertible" of Russia cyber-meddling.. He also scoffed at any move to work with Russia on cybersecurity, saying "we would love to have a cyber dialogue when Russia is sincere about curtailing its sophisticated form of espionage.". Lavrov, just moments earlier, had dismissed the indictments as "just blabber" through an interpreter.. ___. 3:05 p.m.. Russia's foreign minister says the U.S. indictment of a group of Russians accused of an elaborate plot to disrupt the 2016 presidential election is "just blabber.". Asked about the indictments Saturday at the Munich Security Conference, Sergey Lavrov replied: "I have no response. You can publish anything, and we see those indictments multiplying, the statements multiplying." He argued that U.S. officials also have said no country influenced the U.S. election results.. Lavrov added: "Until we see the facts, everything else is just blabber.". The federal indictment brought Friday by U.S. special counsel Robert Mueller represents the most detailed allegations to date of illegal Russian meddling during the campaign that sent Donald Trump to the White House.. ___. 12:50 p.m.. One of the 13 Russians indicted by the United States for interfering in the American presidential election says the U.S. justice system is unfair.. Mikhail Burchik was quoted as saying by the newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda that "I am very surprised that, in the opinion of the Washington court, several Russian people interfered in the elections in the United States. I do not know how the Americans came to this decision.". Burchik was identified in the indictment as executive director of an organization that allegedly sowed propaganda on social media to try to interfere with the 2016 election.. Burchik was quoted as saying Saturday that "they have one-sided justice, and it turns out that you can hang the blame on anyone.". U.S. special counsel Robert Mueller brought the federal indictment Friday.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 