dent Trump's targeting of the Democrat leader.. House Democrats see a big opportunity this year to seize control of the chamber after years in the wilderness, but the favorable landscape has emerged as a double-edged sword for Nancy Pelosi putting high expectations on the House minority leader to deliver or face a resurgent effort to unseat her.. The California Democrat has held onto her leadership post for roughly a dozen years, brushing aside past challenges and touting her political acumen all along, despite her party being relegated to the minority since the 2010 midterms.. This year, Pelosi may face a do-or-die scenario.. If Democrats do fall short in November, a contest to replace Pelosi as the top Democrat already has been handicapped as a two-person battle Maryland Rep. Steny Hoyer, the 2 Democrat, and New York Rep. Joe Crowley, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus.. is very political. Nobody wants to kill the queen. just going about his work, but on a Democratic strategist, who asked to speak anonymously for this story, told Fox News.. Other names could emerge in such a post-midterm melee.. Beyond Hoyer and Crowley, Democratic Reps. Seth Moulton, of Massachusetts; Kathleen Rice, of New York; and Linda Sanchez, of California, have all been mentioned as possible Pelosi challengers, in large part because they have publicly stated their desire for a change in leadership.. Moulton, a two-term congressman and Harvard-educated Iraq War veteran, has been openly critical of House leaders since at least 2016, when Pelosi make good on predictions that Democrats, relying heavily on the anti-Trump message, would retake the House.. As a result, Pelosi, 77, faced a challenge for her post from Ohio Rep. Tim Ryan. Pelosi won two-thirds of the caucus vote, as she accurately predicted. But 63 of the 134 House members voted against her.. In 2012, after failing to significantly cut into the majority, Pelosi shot down a question about whether the decision by her and others in House leadership to remain in their posts is delaying the rise of younger members. She responded by highlighting her efforts to get younger Democrats elected to Congress and concluded, answer is Ryan -- who argued in 2016 that the Democratic Party, including its elite California and New York leaders, has failed to connect with Middle America voters -- has since made clear he has no desire to mount another challenge. His office did not return a request for comment for this story.. The 39-year-old Moulton, even this week, continued to argue for a of leaders. And many House Democrats consider him, not Hoyer, the to such a new group, a House Democratic source said.. Moulton press secretary Matt Fox News on Tuesday that the congressman is interested in seeking a leadership Hoyer also has suggested that he could be the bridge to the next generation. But at 78, and as a longtime member of team, such an argument is difficult to make, several Democrats said this week.. The chairman of the House Democratic Caucus is considered the No. 4 post on leadership team. But Crowley maintains a high profile in Washington and in congressional districts across the country, having recently visited states like New Hampshire and Michigan and often taking charge of House Democratic weekly Capitol Hill press conferences.. He also has contributed at least to candidates and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, from his own committees or from money raised from donors, his office recently told The Washington Post.. While solid numbers, they cannot match who is known as a prolific fundraiser. Last year, Pelosi reportedly raised $49.5 million for House Democrats, including $47.6 million for the DCCC.. can raise in Hollywood and Silicon Valley like the Democratic strategist also said. matched that, but he does Crowley's office declined to comment for this report. Hoyer press Saez said in an email: Hoyer and the entire Democratic Caucus are focused on taking back the House in November. He will continue working hard in the coming months to ensure we have a Democratic Majority in A Pelosi spokesman brushed off the post-midterm speculation.. leader is focused on winning back the Pelosi spokesman Drew Hammill told Fox News on Wednesday. not here to work a shift. on a mission. There will always be people [on Capitol Hill] with ambition. part of the game. But the leader is singularly focused on winning back the House and has the widespread support of the To be sure, Democrats have a good chance this year to win a total of two-dozen seats and take the House.. The party that controls the White House historically loses about 30 seats in the first midterms after the presidential election. In addition, relatively low approval rating will be a strain on GOP candidates in moderate districts; more than 30 House Republicans this cycle are not seeking reelection; and recent federal election records show 55 Democratic candidates so far have raised more money this cycle than the Republican incumbents they are challenging.. Beyond concerns about tenure hurting her ability to keep the party vibrant with newer members, whose ideas and leadership would presumably attract younger voters, the Democratic Party also must contend with her status as a San Francisco liberal alienating moderate voters and a lightning rod for Republicans during election seasons.. "The fact that Nancy Pelosi is the face and leader of the Democratic Party is the gift that keeps on giving for the NRCC," Matt Gorman, National Republican Congressional Committee spokesman, said last week. "As her colleagues openly grumble that she's a liability for 2018 and she continues to be the most unpopular politician in the country, I can only say one thing: go, Nancy, go.". This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 