lamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) waves an ISIL flag in Raqqa June 29, 2014. (REUTERS/Stringer). The U.K. government is harnessing machine learning to combat jihadist content before it even appears online.. Officials from the U.K. Home Office have been working with London-based ASI Data Science to develop the technology, which uses machine learning to detect online terrorist propaganda. Tests have shown that the new tool can automatically detect 94 percent of Islamic State propaganda with 99.995 percent accuracy, according to a Home Office statement. Crucially, the tool can be integrated into the upload process, officials say, a bold move that could prevent terrorist propaganda reaching the internet.. The tool, which works on any platform, uses advanced machine learning to study video audio and visuals to spot ISIS propaganda. Trained using over 1,000 ISIS videos, the tool can work across a range of video-streaming and download sites, the Home Office said.. FACEBOOK BOOSTS ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE TO BLOCK TERRORIST PROPAGANDA. purpose of these videos is to incite violence in our communities, recruit people to their cause, and attempt to spread fear in our explained Home Secretary Amber Rudd, who is currently visiting Silicon Valley, in the statement. know that automatic technology like this can heavily disrupt the actions, as well as prevent people from ever being exposed to these horrific Rudd will be appearing with her U.S. counterpart, Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen, at a Digital Forum event Tuesday.. GOOGLE ANNOUNCES YOUTUBE TERROR VIDEO CLAMPDOWN. Charlie Winter, a senior research fellow at the International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation and Political Violence in London, warned that combatting ISIS online propaganda is an extremely difficult task.. software will not come remotely close to eradicating all #IS propaganda online, even if it works will just make it more difficult to access on the platforms that opt to use he tweeted Tuesday.. Nonetheless, Winter thinks that the new tool is a step in the right direction. the software is as good as the Home Office says it is, certain aspects of propaganda could well become much less accessible to the outside that can only be a good he tweeted.. LONDON TERROR ATTACK: UK WANTS ENCRYPTED WHATSAPP MESSAGES. government has been taking the lead worldwide in making sure that vile terrorist content is stamped explained Rudd, in the statement. The Home Secretary will meet with the Global Internet Forum to Counter Terrorism during her Silicon Valley trip.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 