tigation that found at least 31 varieties of dog food contained traces of pentobarbital, a lethal drug most commonly used for the euthanization of dogs, cats and horses.. A nightmare became reality for Nikki Mael when her five dogs began acting strange minutes after digging into a can of pet food on New Eve 2016. The Washougal, Washington resident and her family raced to the office, where Talula the dog soon passed away.. Devastated, Mael sent the remainder of the food to a lab for testing, where it was discovered that the dog food contained traces of pentobarbital, a lethal drug most commonly used for the euthanisation of dogs, cats and horses, ABC7 reports.. Though the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) bans pentobarbital in animal meat for animal or human consumption, pet food consumer advocate Susan Thixton told the outlet that tragically, such substances often end up in pet food.. MICHIGAN RESTAURANT COOKS UP WORLD'S LARGEST DELIVERY PIZZA. food violates federal law, is openly allowed by the FDA to violate federal law, billion dollar a year companies are making profit selling illegal adulterated products to unknowing consumers in the US every Thixton said.. Taking action into their own hands, ABC7 partnered with Ellipse Analytics to independently investigate pet food for traces of euthanasia drugs.. After testing 62 samples of wet dog food from over 24 brands multiple times over several months, just one brand repeatedly tested positive for pentobarbital with sixty percent of samples coming back positive: Gravy Train.. DISNEYLAND UNVEILS LIMITED-EDITION ROSE GOLD CHURRO. Manufactured by owned company Big Heart Pet Foods, the line also produces Meow Mix, Milk Bone, Bits, 9 Lives, Natural Balance, Pup-Peroni, Recipe, Canine Carry Outs, Kitchen, Alley Cat, Jerky Treats, Meaty Bone, Pounce and Snausages pet foods.. the presence of this substance at any level is not acceptable to us and not up to our quality standards. We sincerely apologize for the concern this has did not immediately return Fox request for comment.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 