ts in a silent protest against the ban. Members of an Ohio community are fighting a Wisconsin-based anti-religion group tried to pressure a high school to ban its long-held tradition of praying before sporting events.. Freedom From Religion Foundation Legal Director Rebecca Markert said the organization received a complaint from concerned alleging constitutional at West Branch High School in Beloit.. "We're pleased the public school district took quick action to halt the practice of inflicting coercive Christian prayers before what is essentially a captive audience," FFRF co-president Annie Laurie Gaylor said. "Public school students should not be expected to pray to play.". students have every right to pray before their sporting said Deputy General Counsel for First Liberty, Jeremy Dys. need to stop stalking and bullying religious students across the country and recognize their constitutional right to freely exercise their West Branch Superintendent Timothy Saxton said his district is a Christian and faith-based that holds prayer near and dear and he called FFRF outside only opposition that I have had anyone voice to me is through this Saxton told Fox News. anything had a strong positive show of Marcie Curry, a parent in the district and West Branch alumna, told Fox News she was with the letter.. know us, have never attended a West Branch sporting event or even stepped foot in our Yet they believe they can tell us to stop one of our cherished, long standing community Curry said. just seem Not everyone is opposed to the ban, though.. think the right Amanda Kaiser, a mother of three children in the district, told Fox. we include everybody, then we give anyone special Parents Brooke and Brandy Pidgeon, with a team of volunteers, banded together to sell over 4,000 t-shirts in the community of fewer than 900 people.. The idea came after their son, Nicholas, one of the school's basketball players, said the phrase during family dinner.. Friday home basketball game was filled with 100 people sporting in green letters alongside the school's Warriors logo.. Before the tip off, Jonny Ross, a junior at the school who is a leader of Fellowship of Christian Athletes, asked all to rise for the National Anthem and then stay silent for either reflection, individual prayer or some other expression.. Local Pastor John Ryser, who said the prayer over the morning announcements when he was in high school and has been leading the prayer for the last 12 years, said been going on for more than 40 years.. really coming together in support of the prayer issue, and having more conversations about prayer and about the gospel, the good news about Jesus Christ, than ever had Ryser said.. One of the most prominent Christian leaders, Reverend Franklin Graham, even weighed in.. join the Warriors in this battle with our Graham said.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 