st her sister Dolly Parton's ex-publicist after he was accused of using Dolly Parton's name in exchange for sexual favors.  (Splash)
                                    
                                        "It's a good ol' boys town and it's always been a good ol' boys town," the younger sister of Dolly Parton told Fox News. "They hide behind their religion, all of them, a bunch of Southern Baptist hypocrites.". A source noted to Fox News that Webster is Catholic, not a Southern Baptist.. Stella Parton told us while Webster PR has gone under, the issue of sexual harassment and assault within the country music community has been mostly swept under the rug.. "[These types of allegations] need to be talked about and people need to stop being silent on this Stella said.. But Rick said sexual assault in the country music industry is still an issue that Nashville needs to own up to.. "Nobody in country music has shown the bravery or determination to hold him [Webster] accountable to the truth.". Shortly after the Webster news broke, the Country Music Association told reporters they were not allowed to ask artists questions about unpleasant political topics at the CMA Awards. NewsChannel 5 Nashville's Jesse Knutson also had his credentials revoked from the Country Radio Seminar last week when he asked the organization to address allegations of sexual misconduct.. Both organizations later backtracked on their initial rulings.. No charges have been filed against Webster due to the statute of limitations, police told us, and Rick said it's back to business as usual on Music Row.. Rick is especially disappointed in Webster's most well-known client Dolly Parton's lack of response to her former publicist's alleged behavior.. Rick seethed, "The only comment she's given is to say that she hopes I'm a liar. She hopes that myself and Kirt's...other victims are all conspiring to peddle terrible falsehoods all so that she doesn't have to think any differently about her 'friend' who has been maliciously exploiting her all along.". Stella Parton told us she knows her sister "does not condone" Webster's alleged behavior but has "always been very selective about talking about stuff like that.". "I don't know why she can't speak out, but I will," the younger Parton said.. She added she has spoken to Dolly about the allegations against Webster, but Stella said she would not speak on her older sister's behalf.. Dolly Parton has since stayed silent on the matter aside from her intial tweet and has not obtained a new personal publicist, relying on her management team and Dollywood publicists to handle her PR requests. A rep for Parton referred Fox News to the singer's original statement on Twitter when reached for comment on this story.. HARVEY WEINSTEIN SCANDAL: WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW. Parton's manager and record label did not return repeated requests for comment about Webster allegedly using her name in exchange for sexual favors.. Stella Parton said she was "appalled" to learn Webster had been "using his association with my sister to get sexual gratification for himself.". The 68-year-old said like Rick, she is "disappointed in the Nashville industry" but is not surprised by its lack of response.. are] afraid if they say anything it will open a Pandora's box... in this town, there's a code of silence that is deafening. You can hear a pin drop in this Parton said.. She added, "I have kept quiet on a lot of things over the years because of [Dolly's] career but I don't do that anymore...right is right and wrong is wrong, and that's why I started speaking out.". "I think just like Hollywood had around [disgraced movie producer] Harvey Weinstein, there's a culture in Nashville that protects certain people from [these allegations] because the power in country music is concentrated towards only a few institutions and a few individuals," Coroneos explained.. He told Fox News, "When you have so much consolidated power around specific individuals, everybody has to get along with these guys or your career is not going to go anywhere.". According to Coroneos, this gives people in positions of power "carte blanche to do whatever they want.". Rick echoed Coroneos' thoughts saying, "Everything stems from the top.". He said country music executives "need to step up and start speaking publicly about this issue. Until this occurs, there's no opening for long-term culture change.". This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 