"PyeongChang Olympics 2018" -- Pictured: (l-r) Lester Holt on Friday, February 9, 2018 -- (Photo by: Joe Scarnici/NBC)
                                    
                                        NBCUniversal Media, LLC). much vaunted news division struggled to cover the tragic Florida school shooting on Thursday and Friday, because its entire team of news stars was halfway around the world promoting Olympics coverage.. The result -- star anchors talking about the shooting from South Korea -- was an embarrassing contrast to rival networks ABC and CBS, who both had their premier anchors on the ground in Parkland, Fla., by Thursday morning.. Savannah Kotb opened Thursday's show from Pyonchang by noting that their are definitely back before tossing it to an Gutierrez, who was in Parkland.. Meanwhile, ABC chief anchor George Stephanopoulos Morning Parkland.. Thursday evening, News David Muir hosted his broadcast from Parkland, as Evening anchor Jeff Glor.. Nightly anchor Lester Holt anchored from South Korea, where he had been sent to promote the unknown reporter Catie Beck joined Gutierrez in South Florida in time to lead coverage for on Thursday.. NBC insiders are now criticizing powerful news chairman Andy Lack for sending his top talent and producers overseas on a promotional jaunt, leaving NBC News dangerously ill-equipped in the event of breaking news.. is very an NBC staffer told Fox News.. NBCUniversal paid nearly $1 billion to broadcast the 2018 Winter Olympics, and expects its news division to cover the games as if there is little else going on in the world of notice during those two weeks. Every two years, NBC News turns into an Olympics marketing and promotional operation, interviewing American athletes and offering uplifting, boosterish coverage of the games and their host country.. Mediaite columnist Joseph Wulfsohn told Fox News that NBC have predicted such a tragedy would take place during the Winter Olympics and that going all-in on the Olympics is their best financially.. with the intense, ugly aftermath now facing as a nation the wake of the Florida shooting, NBC appears tone-deaf and out-of-touch with most of the Wulfsohn said.. The Olympics represent a command performance for any high-profile star or executive at the Peacock Network and Lack sent Holt, Guthrie, Kotb, Al Roker, Natalie Geist, Craig Melvin and Dylan Dreyer abroad, leaving NBC News with only its back bench for any breaking news.. However, in a move highly unusual for an NBC executive, Lack, 70, has himself remained back in New York. It's unknown why he travel abroad. NBC did not respond to multiple requests for comment.. While Kelly reportedly an Olympic when she learned that NBC passed her over for Couric, the news star didn't travel to Florida to anchor NBC's shooting coverage despite having distinguished herself with school shooting coverage at her previous employer, Fox News.. "She should have gotten on the first plane to Miami on Wednesday night and owned that story for NBC," an NBC insider told Fox News, recalling how Katie Couric, ironically, made a big name for herself with sensitive and caring coverage of the 1999 school shooting in Littleton, Colorado.. But instead of traveling to Florida, Kelly aired from New York studios and she relied on Gutierrez for on-the-scene coverage of the aftermath.. NBC did not immediately respond when asked why Kelly sent to the scene.. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 