Winter Olympics TV schedule. All times Pacific.. After an eight-year absence from the Olympics, Lindsey return ended in disappointment Saturday. . Vonn, one of the most successful Alpine skiers in history, finished tied for sixth in the super-G at the Pyeongchang Olympics.. It quite turn out the way I hoped, she said.. Lindsey Vonn returned to the Olympics after an eight-year absence by finishing the super-G in 1:21.49. She was the first skier through the course at Jeongseon Alpine Center. After the run, she mouthed "I tried.". Vonn medal in the super-G. Already dropped to fourth place early in the event.. There will be no medal for American skier Lindsey Vonn in the Olympic super-G at the Pyeongchang Games.. She had a fast run going before a mistake near the bottom cost her valuable time. Tina Weirather of Liechtenstein leads after the opening eight racers.. Vonn will have another chance in the downhill.. Japan's Yuzuru Hanyu has become the first man to successfully defend his Olympic figure skating title since Dick Button in 1952. He held off countryman Shoma Uno, who won silver, and Spain's Javier Fernandez, who took bronze, in Saturday's free skate in Pyeongchang.. Fernandez and Hanyu share the same coach, Brian Orser.. American Nathan Chen surged from a fiasco of a short program, where he was 17th. He won the free skate to wind up fifth overall.. 192.16 points for Vincent Zhou's five-quad program. total=276.69. Second at the moment, but lots of skaters to go.. Jin Boyang of China nearly runs into boards, falls on quad, but passes Nathan Chen for first. Jin has 297.77, Chen has 297.35. Canada's Patrick Chan up now.. The norovirus outbreak among staff and volunteers at the Pyeongchang Olympics isn't going Seventeen new cases were diagnosed Friday, according to the Korean Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. That brings the Games-long total to 261 staff members and volunteers who have contracted the highly contagious Two freestyle skiers from Switzerland have also come down with the illness, the first athletes at the Games known to have been diagnosed.. As enthralling as Yuzuru short program was at the Pyeongchang Games, something almost just as mesmerizing happened after the Japanese figure routine.. The shower of Winnie the Pooh down on the ice.. It was quite a sight to behold, but actually nothing unusual for the aftermath of a performance 23-year-old skater.. Despite missing out on a chance to become the oldest woman to win a gold medal at the Winter Games, seven-time Olympian Claudia Pechstein of Germany yet ready to hang up her speedskates.. Pechstein, who was six days short of her 46th birthday on Friday when she faded and finished a distant eighth in the 5,000-meter race with a time of 7:05.43 , said she intends to continue competing through the 2022 Beijing Games. Why not? she said, laughing.. Why not, indeed. Pechstein, who has won five gold medals, two silvers and two bronzes and set the Olympic record in the 5,000 since 2002, said she had been training well before 12 12-lap race. In addition, she has had success on the Gangneung Oval, having won a silver medal here last year in a World Cup 5,000-meter race to become the oldest speedskater to win a World Cup medal.. Winter Olympics TV schedule. All times Pacific.. There wasn't anything too fancy or technical about what the U.S. men's hockey team needed to do Friday afternoon.. After a disappointing overtime loss to start the 2018 Winter Olympics, the Americans knew they had to give a full 60 minutes' effort against Slovakia.. "We just continued to keep our foot on the gas," forward Jordan Greenway said. "We didn't let up in the third period.". The brown smudge in the snow lay amid a tangle of orange safety netting at the top of the Yongpyong Alpine Center's slalom course.. Minutes before Mikaela Shiffrin's first run Friday in her best event, one where a gold medal seemed to be a foregone conclusion, the U.S. Alpine skiing sensation vomited.. The pre-race upset stomach would be the first of many things that didn't go as planned for Shiffrin, a day after her long-awaited debut at the Pyeongchang Olympics ended with a gold medal in the giant slalom..  Copyright  2018, Los Angeles Times  