President Trump has consistently pushed back against the idea of Russia meddling in the election that put him in power, dismissing that claim as a hoax and an affront to the legitimacy of his victory.. Now, he’s suggesting that the federal investigation into Russian interference has distracted the FBI from performing other work.. National Security Advisor H.R. McMaster said Saturday that evidence of Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election was “now really incontrovertible” following the indictment of 13 Russian individuals and three companies.. Speaking at an international security conference in Munich, Germany, McMaster lent credence to a widening scandal that President Trump has routinely dismissed as a hoax.. "As you can see with the FBI indictment, the evidence is now really incontrovertible and available in the public domain," McMaster said, noting that the United States was becoming "more and more adept at tracing the origins of this espionage and subversion.". Most politicians would have been swallowed up in scandal after new details emerged Friday of an alleged affair — with a Playboy Playmate, no less — that occurred the same weekend of a reported dalliance with a porn star.. Not Donald Trump.. In an effort to stem fast-worsening ties, Turkey and the United States agreed Friday to set up a diplomatic working group to defuse a bitter dispute over Kurdish militias operating in Syria.. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, ending two days of talks with top Turkish officials, conceded that serious disagreements continue to haunt relations between Turkey and the United States, which are NATO allies. . “We find ourselves at a bit of a crisis point in the relationship,” Tillerson said at a news conference with his Turkish counterpart, Mevlut Cavusoglu, in the capital of Ankara.. Special counsel Robert S. Mueller III announced charges against 13 Russians and three Russian companies Friday, accusing them of using stolen identities, fake campaign events and hundreds of social media accounts while spending millions of rubles to interfere in the 2016 presidential election in a secret effort to aid the Trump campaign.. The 37-page indictment, the first charges by Mueller's office accusing Moscow of illegal meddling in the election, says the Internet Research Agency, a Russian firm known for using troll accounts to post on news sites, orchestrated the interference campaign and that its operatives tried to communicate with at least three unnamed Trump campaign officials using fake identities.. Most politicians would have been swallowed up in scandal after new details emerged Friday of an alleged affair — with a Playboy Playmate, no less — that occurred the same weekend of a reported dalliance with a porn star.. Not Donald Trump.. President Trump, who canceled a planned stop in Orlando on Friday in deference to the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., now is suggesting he will meet with victims of the tragedy this weekend while he visits his resort in Palm Beach.. Trump tweeted Friday morning that while in Florida, he would meet with “the bravest people on earth — but people whose lives have been totally shattered.”. I will be leaving for Florida today to meet with some of the bravest people on earth - but people whose lives have been totally shattered. Am also working with Congress on many fronts.. Trump already had planned to spend the weekend at his private Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, which is about 40 miles from Parkland.. Dan Karr had little use for politics until Donald Trump came along. He captivated the small business owner with his wrecking-ball candidacy and Karr has grown even more supportive since Trump became president.. "He's actually doing what he said he would do, which is unusual," the rangy 57-year-old marveled. Things like cutting taxes and rolling back government regulations.. But Karr's enthusiasm doesn't translate into excitement over November's midterm election — he may or may not vote — and that's a problem for Republicans fighting to keep their majorities on Capitol Hill.. Mitt Romney, the Republican Party's 2012 presidential standard-bearer, launched his anticipated political comeback Friday by announcing his front-running bid for U.S. Senate with an ode to Utah and a mild swipe at President Trump.. In a 2 12-minute feel-good video, Romney held up his adopted home state as a model for the country and example that Washington could learn from. "Utah has balanced its budget," he said. "Washington is buried in debt.". "Utah welcomes legal immigrants from around the world," he went on, contrasting that stance with Trump's hard-line stance. "Washington sends immigrants a message of exclusion.". Dan Karr had little use for politics until Donald Trump came along. He captivated the small business owner with his wrecking-ball candidacy and Karr has grown even more supportive since Trump became president.. "He's actually doing what he said he would do, which is unusual," the rangy 57-year-old marveled. Things like cutting taxes and rolling back government regulations..  Copyright © 2018, Los Angeles Times  