Making things in all sorts of ways is what I love to do. It's my therapy, it's my everything. I just can't wait around for someone to hire me.. So consider yourself warned, because this is a quick dive into what lots of people who aren’t Jen and Justin are saying went wrong in their marriage.. Broad strokes? Well, you can dig around the trashiest publications yourself, but the mainstream outlets are making it sound like Justin had a true love other than Jennifer, and that lady’s name was New York, N.Y. . Willie Nelson has cooked up a birthday present for himself: a new studio album.. “Last Man Standing” is scheduled for release on April 27, two days before the revered country music singer and songwriter turns 85.. Announced Friday, the collection includes 11 new songs Nelson has written with longtime songwriting collaborator and producer Buddy Cannon. It’ll be the follow-up to last year’s “God’s Problem Child,” for which Nelson and Cannon also worked together, and which premiered at No. 1 on Billboard’s country album chart.. Olivia de Havilland’s lawsuit over the unauthorized use of her identity in “Feud: Bette and Joan” will continue next month.. Oral arguments in the veteran actress’ case against FX and “Feud” producer Ryan Murphy have been set for March 20.. However, the arguments as to whether the case should advance won’t be heard in a traditional courtroom. They’ll instead be carried out at USC’s law school so that students can watch the procedure, according to De Havilland’s attorneys. The hearing is still as official as if it were held in the courthouse.. Janelle Monáe’s fourth full-length album is coming.. A gritty visual teaser for “Dirty Computer,” which Monáe is calling “an emotion picture,” debuted Friday, offering glimpses of futuristic domiciles, violent riots and various love interests.. “They drained us of our dirt and all the things that made us special,” she says in the trailer. “And then you were lost, sleeping, and you didn’t remember anything at all.”. “The Karate Kid” stars Ralph Macchio and William Zabka are going toe-to-toe — again — in the forthcoming “Cobra Kai” TV series.. In a teaser to the YouTube Red original series posted online Thursday, the stars of the 1984 martial arts franchise reignite their storied rivalry. Johnny Lawrence, the former high school bully played by Zabka, has gone the way of Pat Morita’s Mr. Miyagi by opening his own dojo. It’s called Cobra Kai and its students learn the way of the fist — but Macchio’s Daniel LaRusso isn’t having it with Johnny’s “no mercy” tactics.. “Johnny Lawrence and Daniel LaRusso aren’t the same people they were in high school — but their rivalry hasn’t changed one bit. The Karate Kid saga continues,” reads the synopsis.. Jeffrey Tambor, whose removal from the show “Transparent” in connection with sexual harassment allegations was confirmed Thursday, says Amazon Studios never discussed those charges with him as part of a “deeply flawed” investigation that led to his dismissal. . “I am profoundly disappointed in Amazon’s handling of these false accusations against me,” he said Thursday afternoon in a statement. . Regardless of theology, or however you see life, or relate to worshiping God — as an artist, my job is to tell the truth and then try to connect with these characters and people as honestly and deeply as possible.. Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux have separated, they said Thursday in a public announcement designed to lessen any “further speculation” by what they called the “gossip industry.”. The decision to break up was made at the end of last year and the two remain good friends, they said in their joint statement. . Jeffrey Tambor is officially gone from “Transparent,” Amazon Studios’ breakout transgender-themed series, the studio confirmed Thursday to The Times. . The move doesn’t exactly come as a surprise..  Copyright © 2018, Los Angeles Times  