As the June 5 primary election approaches, Democrats still dominate California's voting rolls and the percentage of independent voters continues to rise, according to new figures provided by the secretary of state's office.. The Democratic Party's slice of the electorate in non-presidential election cycles has remained relatively stagnant for two decades, while the Republican Party's registration slipped by 10 percentage points.. The percentage of independents, meanwhile, has more than doubled since 1997.. Paul Mitchell, who runs the data firm Political Data Inc., said California could have more independent voters than Republicans by the November general election.. Voter registration trends for Democrats, while better, are not exactly rosy. Mitchell said more and more millennials, college students, young Latinos and Asian Americans are registering as independents.. "Democrats are celebrating Republicans losing registration. But they should be mourning," Mitchell said. "This new registrant population looks like Democrats but they are registering as independents.". However, in past elections, "no party preference" voters in California have leaned heavily Democratic at the polls.. Democrats continue to hold a firm grasp on most of Southern California, though the region has a fair number of Republican pockets.. Democrats dominate the electorate in Los Angeles County — home to 1 out of 5 voters in the state — and hold majorities in Riverside, San Bernardino, San Diego, Imperial and Ventura counties.. Republicans have a 3-percentage-point advantage over the Democrats in Orange County. Ten years ago, the GOP had a 10-percentage-point advantage.. Statewide, just under 19 million Californians were registered to vote in January — 76% of those who are eligible.. Here's how they break down by party:. Mitchell noted that many people who intend to register as independents mistakenly sign up with the American Independent Party instead of registering as "No Party Preference.". Since the Times investigation was published, the percentage of Californians registered with the American Independent Party has declined from 2.75% in April 2016 to 2.66% in January. But the actual number of voters in the party has increased from 474,338 to 503,955.. "Fundamentally, the party name needs to be changed because voters are confused," Mitchell said.. phil.willon@latimes.com. Updates on California politics. UPDATES:. This story was originally published at 1:55 p.m. 