Steve Coll has written a book of surpassing excellence that is almost certainly destined for irrelevance. The topic is important, the treatment compelling, the conclusions persuasive. Just expect anything to change as a consequence.. Yet mission accomplishment remains nowhere in sight. Over the past year, the Taliban have increased the amount of territory they control. Opium production has reached an all-time high. And corruption continues to plague an Afghan government of doubtful legitimacy and effectiveness. For a war now in its 17th year, the United States has precious little to show, despite having lost over 2,400 of its own soldiers and expending an estimated trillion dollars.. After 911, the United States and its allies went barreling into Afghanistan, Coll writes, because they felt that they had no alternative. Once in, they were soon plunged into a quagmire. Rarely has a great power undertaken a major military campaign with such a flawed understanding of the challenges ahead. Yet first Bush and then Barack Obama concluded that the United States had no choice but to persist, a view that Donald Trump has now seemingly endorsed.. Drawing on some 550 interviews, Coll describes in granular detail how senior officials, intelligence operatives, diplomats and military officers struggled to comprehend the problem at hand and to devise a solution. A never-ending cycle of policy reviews, surveys and reassessments, along with efforts to find common ground with Afghan and Pakistani counterparts, produced one new strategy after another. None lived up to expectations; in falling short, each created a rationale for trying something a bit different, the Trump recently announced escalation  a few more troops and lots more bombing  offering the latest example.. In each chapter of this very long but engrossing book, Coll takes a deep dive into some particular facet of the conflict. Readers will eavesdrop on contentious policy debates conducted at the highest levels in Washington. They will also accompany soldiers and spooks in the field.. Yet among policymakers and operators alike, the sense of futility is palpable. If Directorate S has a unifying thread, this: Policies formulated on the basis of trial and error likely to work as long as they fail to take critical factors into account. In telling, two such factors in particular stand out.. Of even greater significance, in view, is dysfunctional relationship with the government of Pakistan, or more specifically with the Pakistani Army, which effectively calls the shots on all matters related to internal and external security. Pacifying Afghanistan was always going to pose a challenge. Absent full-throated Pakistani collaboration, it would become next to impossible. The United States needed two things from Pakistan: first, that it would permit supplies bound for coalition forces in landlocked Afghanistan to transit its territory; and second, that it would prevent Qaeda and Taliban remnants from using Pakistan as a sanctuary and operating base.. From perspective, these expectations, premised on an assumption that Pakistan could be cajoled into complying with purposes in Afghanistan, seemed eminently reasonable. Yet that assumption proved wildly off the mark. While the generals commanding the Pakistani Army and directing the Inter-Services Intelligence made a show of cooperating, they were simultaneously working to undermine coalition military efforts. Imbued with the conviction that Afghanistan is vital to Pakistani national security, they had no intention of allowing the United States to determine its fate. So while accepting subsidies amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars  Washington even elevated Pakistan to the status of major non-NATO ally  the Pakistanis still actively supported the Taliban.. military leaders were playing a double game. United States officials knew they were being had, yet could do little about it. With its own well-established record of having broken promises to Pakistan, Washington was not exactly in a position to call in any markers.. Despite being nominally the superior power, the United States found that it could exert minimal leverage. Officials could ask, but not demand, while nuclear arsenal limited its susceptibility to threats and sanctions. Although American officials went to almost comic lengths in attempting to befriend or flatter their Pakistani counterparts  Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, called on army chief no fewer than 27 occasions  such efforts proved to no avail.. In Afghanistan, Pakistan has never ceased to support the very enemy that the United States and allied forces have been struggling to defeat. Its army and intelligence service remained throughout an incubator and enabler of extremism. Coll concludes that inability to solve the riddle of Inter-Services Intelligence and to stop its covert interference in Afghanistan constituted the greatest strategic failure of the American I believe victory is closer than ever before. The words are Mike uttered during his recent trip to Kabul, but the sentiment is one that any number of high-ranking American officials, civilian and military alike, have expressed over the years. Readers of Directorate S will find no reason to take such assurances seriously. No matter: The Afghanistan war will no doubt continue on its endless course. 