The joke about Mr. Muhammad, an Arab who is married with seven children between 6 months and 15 years old, is that every time he gets wounded, he goes home to recuperate and fathers another child. He is one of the four deputies to the American-backed Manbij Military top commander, who is a Kurd. Mr. Muhammed said he has fought alongside the Americans throughout northern Syria, on at least 13 battlefields. Before we used to just fight, and now since the Americans joined us in the era of organizing ourselves, he said. In the beginning they were just like advisers and go with us to the front line, but later they joined us there, too, he said, referring to American forces. Four of the five times he was wounded, he was evacuated by American medics.. Orhan Qamislo was a Kurdish fighter for the Protection Forces, who helped the Americans defeat the Islamic State, also known as ISIS and Daesh, in Manbij, which is both a city and a district in this region of Syria. He was killed in battle in July 2016 at age 21. His father, Mr. Ebid, was also a Kurdish militiaman, stationed elsewhere. When the family heard that Orhan had died, his brother, Abdulrazaq, now 19, joined in his place and took his name, a common practice among Kurds. When he took his name, it was like my son the martyr had never died, Mr. Ebid said. He and the new Orhan were visiting the older grave, festooned with his picture, to plant an olive tree in front of it.. Mr. Derwish, a Kurd, is married and has five children, 1 to 13 years old, who live far from him so they can attend Kurdish schools. A week ago I went to see my kids and I had to ask what grade are you in school now? he said. He began working as a civilian for the revolution, in Kobani, Syria, and was one of the first founders and organizers of the Syrian Democratic Forces. I may be the media spokesman, but many times had to put down my camera and pick up my gun, he said. He said he felt that the public outside northern Syria was not very aware of what the Americans and the S.D.F. had accomplished here. very proud. We did something for our people, and for the world. Two years ago, ISIS was feared by the whole world. We gave to our people and to the world something very good. We did it with the Mr. Gerah worked in a carwash in his hometown, Raqqa, until it was taken over by the Islamic State and his family fled to Turkey. He returned to Syria last year and joined the S.D.F. This month, he was wounded by a roadside bomb, and is now in the Tal Abyad military hospital recuperating from multiple injuries. The Islamic State, he said, was every bad thing in the Mr. Maserli, an Arab who has been fighting since 2012, had trouble remembering all the many places he fought along with American soldiers, but his boss counted nine, including Manbij, his hometown. Mr. Maserli developed a skill for dismantling booby traps, which the Islamic State often left behind when they were defeated. He was grateful to the Americans for supplying GPS and night vision equipment, which gave the S.D.F. an edge over the Islamic State, but he said, with all due respect, the local fighters were better than the American allies at urban warfare. We are the owners of this land and we know how to get in and get out, and in a street war, they always used to carry a lot of stuff with them, which we he said. In a city, you have to be flexible and move fast, and they The commander of the Manbij Military Council, Mr. Adel is married and has seven children, ages 10 to 22. This revolution has made me dizzy, he said, by way of explanation. Before taking over the command duties last year, he fought in at least 13 battlefields alongside the Americans. In the early days of American cooperation, in 2014, our skills were so primitive we would send tracers in the sky to guide the bombers to the targets, he said. We know about map coordinates and GPS and all that stuff, even have internet and target maps like we have now. Before the revolution, I was a businessman. I never knew anything about military Ms. Anas is the Euphrates Valley commander of the Protection Forces, a Kurdish militia that is part of the S.D.F. Like many of her fellow commanders, she has been wounded in battle, while fighting in Kobani in 2014. Our commanders all lead from the front, she said. Ms. Anas fought alongside the American military in Manbij, Shadade and Al Haul, and last year in Raqqa and Deir al-Zour. The American Special Operations units always had one or two American women, and they were quick to bond with their Kurdish counterparts, she said. Some of them were chagrined, she said, when they realized the Kurds were way ahead of them in battlefield equality. They had limited powers compared to us, she said. We can make decisions and everything without a man approving them, and they easily do that. So you could say more advanced than the American military, that way. During the Raqqa and Manbij fights, the militia could sometimes listen in on Islamic State radio conversations. It drove Daesh crazy to think women were fighting against them, she said. They used to say, get one of their heads.  They never did; no Kurdish woman was captured alive by the extremists, she said. With Daesh, we always kept one bullet or one grenade for ourselves, and fought to the last breath. 