On the eve of Presidents’ Day weekend, the indictments of 13 Russians for interfering in the 2016 presidential election are a wakeup call for all Americans regardless of political stripe or party affiliation. It shows the enormous responsibility on the special counsel Robert Mueller’s shoulders to keep the country and our democratic system safe from our Kremlin adversaries.. Trying to get beyond partisan politics, it was a wise move to have Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, a Republican, publicly announce the indictments by Mr. Mueller, a Republican, for Russian activities not only to hurt Hillary Clinton but also Republican candidates for president. It was also a good symbol to elevate the public’s understanding of the seriousness of Mr. Rosenstein’s charge and why he has such great confidence in Mr. Mueller.. It is the case that this round of indictments may help build a future case for any Americans who aided and abetted or conspired with the Russians in any of the Kremlin’s different operations to interfere in the election. Mr. Mueller obviously now appears to have not just intelligence information but also sufficient evidence for a criminal trial. And he has that evidence to prove a Russian conspiracy in “impairing, obstructing, and defeating the lawful functions of the government through fraud and deceit for the purpose of interfering with the U.S. political and electoral processes, including the presidential election of 2016.” That’s a mouthful, but it captures the scope of the criminal case.. But let the chips fall where they may. If Americans deliberately assisted the Kremlin’s “information warfare against the United States of America,” we need to know about it — at the very least as part of a counterintelligence investigation. If these Americans were “unwitting,” it is important to know how the Russians exploit such vulnerabilities and for Mr. Mueller’s investigation to educate the government and the public.. Friday’s indictments raise the stakes for our country enormously. President Trump and some of his most loyal supporters on the Hill must let Mr. Mueller and the F.B.I. complete the task. It should be all too real to Americans, what the costs are for our democratic system and our national security if public servants like Mr. Rosenstein, Mr. Mueller and the F.B.I. are delayed or disrupted in their mission. 