“It’s very sad something like that could happen,” a solemn Mr. Trump told reporters who had gathered at the hospital, Broward Health North. In his public remarks, the president focused on praising law enforcement officials and doctors; he hailed the speed of emergency medical workers as “record setting.”. While at the hospital, the president did not respond to a question about whether gun laws should change.. Mr. Trump’s wife, Melania, accompanied him to Broward, where they paid tribute to doctors and emergency workers for quickly moving people from the site of the shooting, Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, to the medical facility, which took in eight victims.. “The job they’ve done is incredible, and I want to congratulate you,” Mr. Trump said as he shook the hand of Dr. Igor Nichiporenko, a trauma surgeon at Broward.. The White House later said that Mr. and Mrs. Trump met with two of the shooting victims while they were there.. After the hospital visit, Mr. Trump went to the Broward County Sheriff’s Office, where he was introduced to law enforcement officers.. When the president met Officer Michael Leonard of the Coconut Creek Police Department, who captured the suspect, he said that Officer Leonard had played down his introduction.. “That was so modest; I would have told it much differently,” Mr. Trump joked. “I would have said, ‘Without me, they never would have found him.’”. Arriving in Florida after a week of challenges directed at his administration, Mr. Trump appeared ready to charm a crowd and forget the troubles he left behind.. The president also offered encouragement to a local F.B.I. agent at the sheriff’s office.. “We had a lot of F.B.I. guys down here quickly,” Mr. Trump said. “So great job, thank you very much.”. On Friday, F.B.I. officials acknowledged that they had not acted on a previous tip about the suspect. Gov. Rick Scott of Florida, who was also at the sheriff’s office, had earlier in the day called on the F.B.I. director, Christopher A. Wray, to resign over the episode.. Meanwhile, Mrs. Trump, who has in recent weeks kept out of public view, praised the group of law enforcement officers.. “Thank you all for what you do,” she told them, adding that children “are our future.”. “Let’s take care of them,” she said, “because they will go through a lot.”. “This is a community and a state that is a deep pain, and they want action to make sure this doesn’t happen again,” Mr. Rubio said.. “You can count on it,” the president responded. 