ST. PETERSBURG, Russia  Operating from St. Petersburg, they churned out falsehoods on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube. They promoted Donald J. Trump and denigrated Hillary Clinton. They stole the identities of American citizens. They organized political rallies in several states, and hired a Clinton impersonator for one event, in West Palm Beach, Fla.. One sign of his connection to the trolls, according to the indictment: In what appeared to be something of an inside joke, people working for the Internet Research Agency paid an American to hold a sign outside the White House  Happy 55th Birthday, Dear Boss  to celebrate Mr. birthday (June 1) in 2016.. The troll farm soon drew notice in Russia: news outlets reported that it employed 250 people in 12-hour shifts to provide a round-the-clock flow of pro-Kremlin posts and comments, praising Mr. Putin and excoriating President Barack Obama and President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine. Monthly salaries ranged from $1,100 for a junior analyst to $1,400 for a blogger to $4,200 a month for senior management.. Mr. Bystrov, who is believed to be 59, has avoided reporters and declined interview requests.. A young tech entrepreneur, Mr. Burchik, 31, joined the company in October 2013 and became its executive director, the No. 2 official, by March 2014, according to the indictment.. According to online records, he registered a company in 2009 called Add1.ru that was behind a 2014 hoax. In that hoax, a young woman in aviator sunglasses calling herself Zoe Foreman spent hours spamming politicians and journalists about a horrific  and fictitious  chemical plant explosion in Louisiana.. Throughout the troll operations to interfere in American politics, including the election, Burchik was a manager involved in operational planning, infrastructure and personnel, according to the indictment.. The business news website RBC reported on Friday that Mr. Burchik claimed not to know English well enough to understand what he had been accused of. If a few hundred million Americans are so worried about the activities of a regular Russian small-business man from the IT-sphere doing website development, then it seems the situation in the country is completely grave, he said.. Mr. Burchik told Komsomolskaya Pravda, a Russian tabloid, that he was not concerned about being detained while traveling abroad. I love my country. In Russia there are many beautiful places where you can go, he said.. Mr. Burchik has worked on several small government projects in St. Petersburg. In 2015 he was awarded a contract worth about $20,000 to develop and publish a newspaper called Dvortsovy Ukrug, for the administration of one of St. municipal districts, according to government documents.. That same year, another municipal district government awarded him a similar contract to prepare a film about its activities. And in 2012, he won a $4,500 contract for organizing a program for promoting tolerance and prevention of drug addiction for local schools.. Ms. Bogacheva and Ms. Krylova obtained visas to visit the United States in 2014 under false pretenses for the purposes of collecting intelligence to inform the operatives, according to the indictment. They are said to have embarked on what amounted to a three-week reconnaissance tour, visiting California, Colorado, Illinois, Louisiana, Michigan, Nevada, New Mexico, New York and Texas. Along the way, they bought SIM cards, cameras and drop phones and discussed evacuation scenarios and other security measures.. According to the indictment, Ms. Bogacheva oversaw the data analysis group for the translator project. A woman with the same name was listed in 2013 on the website of ITMO, a prestigious science university in St. Petersburg, as a doctoral candidate. She worked there from 2011 to 2014, as an engineer in the eScience Research Institute, according to a university spokeswoman. Many of the graduates have gone on to work for the Russian government or for large tech companies.. Ms. Krylova became the No. 3 person at the troll farm, according to the indictment. According to what appears to be her LinkedIn profile, she is a graduate of the Moscow State University of Printing Arts, where she studied with the faculty of advertising and public relations.. She was the head of the Federal News Agency, which is believed to be Mr. flagship media outlet. The agency is known for its exclusive coverage of Russian private armies on front line.. Mr. Polozov ran the troll I.T. department and oversaw the purchase of space on computer servers inside the United States to set up virtual private networks that masked the Russian location, according to the indictment. After a co-conspirator traveled to Atlanta in November 2014, he gave Mr. Polozov a summary of his trip and expenses.. According to business records and Mr. page on the Russian social network Vkontakte, Mr. Polozov runs a software company called Morkov, which was registered in 2013, and began to recruit web developers and programmers in early 2014.. In need of people with knowledge of website promotion for full-time work, he wrote in a Vkontakte post on May 28, 2014. If interested, send me a personal message. You can send your Not much is known about the Bovdas, including their relationship. According to the indictment, she was the head, and he the deputy head, of the translator project, the troll campaign to target Americans with messages on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube, starting in April 2014. The project employed hundreds of people and, by the summer of 2016, was spending $1.2 million a month. It hid activities through a web of shell companies. According to the indictment, Ms. Bovda and Mr. Bovda both worked for the troll farm for about a year, from November 2013 to October 2014.. According to the indictment, Mr. Aslanov oversaw many of the operations targeting the United States election. An investigation by RBC, a newsmagazine, found that Mr. Aslanov was in charge of the American department of the troll farm. It reported that Mr. Aslanov arrived in St. Petersburg in 2000 from his hometown Ust-Kut, in the Irkutsk region. His Vkontakte profile says he graduated from the Russian State Hydrometeorological University in St. Petersburg in 2012, and a university page indicates that he studied economics and wildlife management.. The RBC report says that he spent several months in the United States in 2009, visiting New York and Boston. His work at the troll farm included registering legal entities in the names of his employees.. Ms. Kaverzina grew worried after Facebook revealed last September that it was cooperating with the authorities to look into Russian advertising on the platform. We had a slight crisis here at work: the F.B.I. busted our activity (not a joke), she wrote to a relative, according to the indictment. So, I got preoccupied with covering tracks together with the colleagues, she added. I created all these pictures and posts, and the Americans believed that it was written by their Mr. Podkopaev was an analyst for the translator project. He conducted research on the United States and drafted social media messages for the organization, according to the indictment. 