As he unveiled the charges against one of Gov. Andrew M. top lieutenants, Preet Bharara hoped aloud for a jury trial so that all New Yorkers can see, in gory detail, what their state government has been up Mr. Bharara, then the United States attorney in Manhattan, has gotten his wish.. For the last two weeks, Todd R. Howe, a confessed felon and former lobbyist who has flipped to tell all about his co-conspirators, has taken the witness stand in a corruption scandal that has rocked Albany.. The story that Mr. Howe has unfurled has included tales of six-figure campaign contributions to Mr. Cuomo, made from a company with business before the state, that were purposefully divided up to hide their origin. There were private plane trips, courtesy of Mr. clients, for Mr. Cuomo days before his first election  not to mention a deep-sea fishing expedition for his campaign manager.. Mr. Howe said he raised a considerable amount of money for Mr. Cuomo in 2010 and then volunteered in the 2014 campaign headquarters while raising still more money  all as he tried to secure state actions benefiting his clients.. And those are just the activities deemed legal.. Technically, it is Joseph Percoco, formerly one of Mr. most-trusted aides, who is on trial, along with three co-conspirators in two bribery and corruption schemes. Mr. Cuomo has not been accused of any wrongdoing. The courtroom drama has nonetheless served as a stinging indictment of Albany, a city of back-room dealings and back-scratching, fund-raisers and favors, where money talks and Cuomo administration officials have listened.. It has peeled back the curtain, and the public is getting to see the seedier side of Albany, said Blair Horner, the longtime executive director of the New York Public Interest Research Group.. Mr. Percoco was once a uniquely powerful figure, the right-hand man and enforcer. He is charged with accepting hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes  described in repeated emails with Mr. Howe as a code word lifted from the Mafia drama The Sopranos  from two companies in exchange for helping them extract action from Albany.. Mr. Cuomo has so far declined to comment on the ongoing trial, citing his great deal of respect for the legal Many of the revelations about how Albany works have emerged as passing asides, such as the fact that Mr. Howe did not initially register as a lobbyist, following the suggestion, he said, of a senior Cuomo official.. Or that Mr. Percoco continued to use his office in the official suite while running Mr. 2014 campaign  despite a prohibition on using state resources for politics. Or that Mr. Percoco did not appear on Mr. official calendar despite often being in that office at the same time. Or that those calendars do not necessarily include all meeting attendees. testified Linda Lacewell, currently Mr. chief of staff, not an exact The trial has exposed widespread use of private email addresses, and other means, in the Cuomo administration, presumably in an effort to shield communications from public disclosure laws. The administration has previously denied such practices. At one point, Mr. attorney went through a list of officials, name by name, that Mr. Howe communicated with and was cut off after a couple minutes.. I think it is pretty clear that he communicated to a lot of people via their personal email accounts, Judge Valerie E. Caproni said.. The broader story being painted in the federal courthouse is the enduring pay-to-play culture in New York, where money and friends buy access and power. In Albany, the biggest scandal is legal, not illegal, Mr. Horner said.. Mimi Rocah, who worked from 2001 to 2017 as an assistant United States attorney in New York, including on some Albany corruption cases, said there is a systemic problem where minimal transparency is required and back-room deals are allowed to thrive. In that atmosphere, with huge sums of money at stake, greedy private individuals will find greedy politicians to For decades, Mr. fortunes have been interconnected with the Cuomo family. He worked for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo in the 1980s and then for Andrew Cuomo in the 1990s at the federal housing department. Eventually, he became a lobbyist.. Mr. Howe seemed to be living a high-flying life. He earned up to $750,000 per year. He had his choice of company-paid cars, either a Mercedes or a Porsche SUV. He indulged in worldly vacations: St. Lucia, Vineyard, the Virgin Islands.. By 2010, though, Mr. Howe had been compulsively overspending and was drowning in debt. He stiffed his tutor, dog walkers, mortgage lenders. In April 2010, he was arrested and charged with a felony of falsifying a check.. I was living way above my means, and I had dug myself into a deep hole, Mr. Howe testified.. A month later, a lifeline of sorts arrived via an email from Mr. Percoco, then Mr. campaign manager. It was time, Mr. Percoco told Mr. Howe, to activate the brotherhood of the Cuomo clan.. Mr. Howe quickly signed on. I knew Andrew Cuomo, he was running for governor, and I was in a position to help raise money, he said.. He also admitted that he kept lying. And embezzling. And doctoring emails to inflate his standing.. Mr. Howe introduced one of his clients, who needed state government approval for a power plant, to Mr. Percoco on that deep-sea fishing trip. The client, Peter G. Kelly, an executive with the power company, would later hire Mr. wife in what prosecutors say was a bribe.. Mr. Howe also said he got Mr. firm to lend Mr. Cuomo a plane, at Mr. request, in the closing days of the 2010 campaign. In the first month, Mr. Kelly was invited to a private fund-raising dinner with Mr. Cuomo, emails show.. On election night 2010, another opportunity presented itself for Mr. Howe because of his Cuomo connections. An old friend, he testified, grabbed me and said, Hey, look, now that Andrew has become governor, like you to come up to Syracuse and meet with a construction firm that I have known and had a great relationship with, because I think you can help That firm, COR Development, is at the center of the second bribery scheme. Mr. Howe said he advised them about, among other things, how to donate money in Albany  a strategy of how to maximize your investment, as Mr. Howe put it. He testified that he advised: The stronger the relationship or a relationship you can build with the governor through campaign contributions is The company would donate, on Mr. advice, through limited liability companies with different names to make the money harder to track.. Mr. credibility is one of the central questions for the jury. Emails, records and receipts corroborate many of his stories. But the defense lawyers have relentlessly hammered Mr. Howe as a maestro of evasion for his years of crimes and lies  including inducing him to admit to apparently attempting to defraud his credit card company for a stay at the Waldorf Astoria hotel after he struck a cooperation agreement with government prosecutors.. Mr. Howe, who had been out on bail, was promptly arrested that night, and has since been jailed. It is unclear if his bail revocation threatens his cooperation agreement, or his current job as a groundskeeper on an Idaho golf course. I believe, he said the day he returned, in a boatload of not the only one.. As Mr. Percoco exited the courtroom one day, the former Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, entered moments later.. Mr. Silver was convicted on corruption charges in 2015 only to have the verdict overturned after the Supreme Court narrowed what constitutes corruption. The conviction of the former Senate leader, Dean G. Skelos, was similarly overturned. Both face retrials this year.. Mr. Cuomo, Mr. Silver and Mr. Skelos were once the three most powerful elected officials in Albany.. a new trial every month, said Mr. Camarda, who is pushing for tighter ethics and disclosure rules. If that bring about change, you have to wonder what will. 