But in the middle of admissions season, the private schools say their numbers are up, despite the price competition from Excelsior, which the governor last week credited with increasing applications to State University of New York and City University of New York affiliated schools by 10 percent. The growth, he said, was proof positive that students are seizing this unprecedented SUNY and increases actually pale in comparison to some of the private colleges, including smaller ones that mostly draw from within the state. At Hartwick College, less than a mile from SUNY Oneonta in the Catskills, freshman applications for the fall of 2018 are up by 43 percent over all, and 41 percent among New York state residents. At St. Lawrence University, located about 20 miles from the Canadian border, applications have climbed 12 percent, reversing a drop from the previous year. And at Alfred University in southwestern New York, near the Pennsylvania border, applications have risen 14 percent to a record high, while deposits have increased 30 percent.. In response to Excelsior, many of the schools have begun new scholarships, or are making efforts to highlight their advantages over the public institutions and target prospective students.. When Excelsior was announced it certainly made many independent colleges nervous, but once details emerged of requirements for those who qualify, many at private colleges and universities breathed a sigh of relief, said Colin Nekritz, director of marketing and communications at College in Buffalo, which has seen steady increases in both applications and enrollment, both before and after Excelsior.. Under the program, recipients families cannot make an adjusted gross income of more than $110,000 for the 2018-19 academic year and students are required to stay in New York for as many years as they received the awards, or risk having the grant be converted into a loan. Critics say that focusing solely on tuition penalizes the poorest students, who often need help with living expenses, books and fees that are not covered by Excelsior.. About 23,000 students are now benefiting from Excelsior.. We believe that Gov. Excelsior Scholarship played a significant role in the increases in applications, enrollment and credit-taking by enabling eligible students to attend tuition-free, James B. Milliken, chancellor, said in a statement.. But interviews with more than two dozen private schools in every corner of the state, from small religious colleges like Roberts Wesleyan in Rochester to larger schools like Pace University in New York City and Westchester found that an overwhelming majority also reported increases in freshman applications.. Families are realizing that there are times when a private college is as affordable as a state school, she said.. The connectivity is extraordinary and be monetized, said Linda LeMura, the president. If not able to serve the students and give them the attention they need, ultimately the economic value of free tuition Many colleges caution that impact may not be felt until after final acceptances go out and prospective students decide where to enroll. And some believe that many students, especially from middle-class families less-affected by application fees, are simply applying to more schools in general, as acceptances seem dicier.. We like the fact that the conversation the governor started last year about affordability is going on  the average family still thinks very positively about Excelsior, Mr. Jones said. And you know who the big winners are going to be? The students, because at the privates or the publics, all working to enroll that kid. 