The battle between the Hollywood establishment and the streaming-media giants has caused big changes in the entertainment industry in recent months, driving up the prices of major stars and series producers while leaving traditional companies in danger of losing relevance.. Mr. Murphy was in an ideal bargaining position not only because he possesses a fecund imagination able to spin out one successful series after another, but because Apple and Amazon have lately proved themselves willing to spend their way into rivalries with the old-line movie studios and television networks.. Ted Sarandos, the chief content officer at Netflix, laid down the gauntlet five years ago when he said, “The goal is to become HBO faster than HBO can become us.”. That statement seemed unlikely, coming from an executive who had only recently begun overseeing original programming at a company better known for tucking DVDs into postage-paid red envelopes.. Dana Walden, a co-chief executive of the Fox television group, said Mr. Sarandos’s signing of Ms. Rhimes was the deal that had evinced a deep change in Hollywood.. “What Ted did was extremely disruptive and sent a message to the entire talent community: These old deals that seemed incredibly lucrative at the time, there’s a new template in town,” Ms. Walden said. “For any uber-premium creator, the value has gone up 10 times. And Ryan is a once-in-a-lifetime creator.”. Rick Rosen, the head of TV at the agency WME, said it had become clear that Netflix was now able to outspend the companies that had been around since the early days of the movie business.. “As a representative of talent, if you have top-top talent, you must talk to them,” he said. “You’d be negligent if you didn’t. Top talent wants to pitch to Netflix.”. Another competitor in the expanding streaming industry, Hulu — which is available only in the United States — has gained momentum recently with original series like the much-decorated “The Handmaid’s Tale,” and now has 17 million subscribers. While that is no match for Netflix, the company has seen growth in each of the last two quarters.. With the old Hollywood model disrupted, or perhaps broken, Disney, Fox, CBS, Viacom and Time Warner have moved to gain scale in their efforts to compete against the deep-pocketed upstarts.. The mergers and acquisitions taking place in the background are, for now, a destabilizing force in the entertainment industry — one that likely contributed to Mr. Murphy’s decision to leave old Hollywood for the streaming space.. “Were the Disney deal to have never happened, I think he would have been close to a new deal with us,” said Ms. Walden, the Fox executive who has worked closely with Mr. Murphy. “If the Disney move happened a year ago, and the transaction was completed by now and we were part of the Disney Company, I think he would be part of us.”. Mr. Murphy declined to comment for this article.. Disney — a part-owner of Hulu that is building new streaming services under its chief executive, Robert A. Iger — has repeatedly cited 21st Century Fox’s ability to create popular programming as one of the main reasons it sought to acquire it from Rupert Murdoch. Disney’s own television studio has not been a reliable supplier.. The day after losing Mr. Murphy to Netflix, John Landgraf, the chief executive of FX, which is part of 21st Century Fox, pointed to his cable network’s long record of producing talent, including Donald Glover (“Atlanta”) and Pamela Adlon (“Better Things”).. “With more than 20 scripted original series on our schedule or upcoming, FX has a very successful track record of identifying and developing talented writers who have produced award-winning hit shows, and it will continue to do so,” he said.. The money aside, Mr. Murphy may have decided that he had a better chance of creating new shows with minimal interference from above at Netflix, rather than at a Disneyfied version of 21st Century Fox. Referring to Disney’s agreement to acquire much of the company at a news media event last month, the producer said: “When this deal first went down, I got a call from the Murdochs and I got a call from Mr. Iger. And I said point-blank, you know, the stuff that I do is not specifically Disney, and I’m interested in that and I’m concerned about that.”. The Murphy deal is a distillation of what may prove to be a once-in-a-generation Hollywood moment. He was looking for security at a time when the old-line companies had yet to take the expanded form they are likely to assume in the next year — and when the streaming services are spending in manic style.. And it helps that Mr. Murphy has become a Netflix obsessive in his own right.. The question now is: How long will the streaming companies continue to spend in a George Streinbrenner-like fashion for talent? Last month, Netflix told investors that it had generated a net income of more than $559 million in 2017, but said its free cash flow was negative $2 billion — a figure that could balloon to $4 billion this year, the company said. 