On a cold February morning at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, the skeleton of a modern 15-story building was rising from a muddy construction site along the East River. As long and as tall as a cruise ship, the sleek glass structure loomed above rusty, century-old dry docks, serving notice to the industrial neighborhood that the new economy was coming.. When Dock 72 is completed this year, if the aggressive timeline holds, it will represent the fullest expression of Mr. expansive vision to date. There will be an enormous co-working space, a luxury spa and large offices, for other companies like IBM and Verizon, that are designed and run by WeWork. There will be a juice bar, a real bar, a gym with a boxing studio, an outdoor basketball court and panoramic vistas of Manhattan. There will be restaurants and maybe even dry cleaning services and a barbershop.. It will be the kind of place you never have to leave until you need to go to sleep  and if Mr. Neumann has his way, sleep at one of the apartments he is renting nearby.. an all-encompassing sort of ambition, and Mr. Neumann is the brash and idealistic pitchman. Simply by encouraging strangers to share a beer at the office, he argues, WeWork can heal our fractured society.. How do you change the world? Mr. Neumann asked in a recent interview. Bring people together. Where is the easiest big place to bring people together? In the work It may sound simplistic, but around the globe, companies are buying whatever it is that Mr. Neumann and his co-founder, Miguel McKelvey, are selling. WeWork has rapidly expanded to 20 countries, assembled a formidable executive team and attracted some 200,000 members. Big companies like JPMorgan Chase and Siemens are signing on as tenants, and revenues are growing fast, expected to top $2.3 billion this year.. A company ostensibly about co-working now employs yoga instructors, architects, teachers, environmental scientists, software engineers, molecular biologists and social psychologists.. Is it all a bit much for a young company still trying to build out its core business? made that argument, said Bruce Dunlevie, a WeWork board member and partner at the venture capital firm Benchmark. But, he said, great entrepreneurs like Adam listen to guys like As WeWork expands in all directions, it faces persistent questions about its rich valuation and the durability of its business model. Critics argue that the company does little more than corporate real estate arbitrage  leasing a space, spiffing it up, then subleasing it out to other tenants. The company owns hardly any properties, giving it precious few hard assets. Its growth projections strike many as unattainable, and it has missed expectations before. A number of upstarts loom as potential competitors, seeking to replicate success. And many WeWork tenants are unproven start-ups that could quickly fold.. IWG, a publicly traded co-working company that has more members and more real estate than WeWork, is valued at just $2 billion. Yet Mr. Neumann has convinced investors that WeWork is worth 10 times that figure.. explanation for the valuation of WeWork speaks for itself, said Chris Kelly, co-founder and president of Convene, a company that offers flexible event spaces and is backed by major real estate firms. This is not an Excel spreadsheet calculation. He believes an energy behind the brand, and gotten people to invest at that valuation. He has not tried to explain it in traditional financial Indeed, to assess WeWork by conventional metrics is to miss the point, according to Mr. Neumann. WeWork really a real estate company. a state of consciousness, he argues, a generation of interconnected emotionally intelligent entrepreneurs. And Mr. Neumann, with his combination of inspiration and chutzpah, wants to transform not just the way we work and live, but the very world we live in.. an audacious, perhaps delusional plan for a company that made its mark by building communal desks and providing refreshments. And so far, it seems to be working.. Mr. Son, largest investor, is betting that the company will grow exponentially in the years to come, making his multibillion-dollar investment a veritable bargain.. The notion that white-collar workers might actually like their offices is a relatively new one. From the countinghouses of industrial England to the skyscrapers of 1980s Manhattan, offices were mostly uninspiring places designed to maximize space, often with row upon row of unglamorous desks.. The only kind of model that anyone had for laying out a large workplace was a factory, said Nikil Saval, author of Cubed: A Secret History of the Workplace. So the office was made to resemble an assembly This dreary state of affairs began to change in earnest, at least for some, during the dot-com bubble. Tech companies built playful offices with beanbags and Ping-Pong tables, making work spaces less formal. Free food became commonplace.. Raised expectations for amenities and interior design gradually seeped into the mainstream, and today, more and more employees  especially millennials  expect enlightened, unconventional offices.. Enter WeWork. With people bouncing between employers, jobs concentrated in cities and technology making it easier to work remotely, the demand for co-working was suddenly real, and ready to be monetized. Mr. Neumann, who grew up on a kibbutz in Israel, had an epiphany: Bring the communal vibe to the office.. Soon he and a friend  Mr. McKelvey, an equally tall Oregonian who grew up on a collective and was working as an architect  founded an eco-friendly co-working space in Brooklyn. They sold it, but they quickly turned around and started WeWork in 2010.. Me and Miguel have this common ground, Mr. Neumann said. We both grew up in very close WeWork invent co-working spaces, of course. IWG, better known as Regus, has been around for decades. But Mr. Neumann and Mr. McKelvey quickly hit upon a recipe that drew throngs of start-ups: an industrial chic aesthetic, some big common areas with comfy couches, free beer and piped-in pop music.. Individuals pay as little as $45 a month for occasional access to a desk in a common area. Start-ups can pay a few thousand dollars for a private room on a month-to-month basis, and some big companies pay millions of dollars a year for spaces that hold thousands of employees over multiple locations.. a formula that has caught on from New York to Tel Aviv to Shanghai. In New York alone, WeWork has 49 spaces, most of them nearly full. At the WeWork in Harlem, dance companies share space with hair care start-ups in a common area adorned with murals of jazz musicians. At a WeWork in TriBeCa, fashion designers and alcohol distributors work shoulder to shoulder in a spartan space decorated with neon lighting.. For WeWork to really succeed in changing the way we all work, it is going to have to win over big corporations seeking space for thousands of employees. The strategy is an odd reversal for WeWork, which made its name catering to freelancers and start-ups.. The Weather Channel recently moved its ad sales team into an enormous WeWork in Midtown Manhattan. Barbara Bekkedahl, who runs the group, said the transition was easy and the space comfortable and stylish.. But Ms. Bekkedahl had a complaint, too, one that highlights one of the downsides of communal work space. She suggested that the hygienic and sartorial habits of some of her new office mates were lacking.. As a TV sales team, we groom and dress for outside sales, she said. Some of the techie and start-up types housed at WeWork facing customers all day, so always have the same Gripes about grooming are unlikely to slow down business with corporate clients, especially if Mr. Neumann makes good on his promise to save them money. Because WeWork is building out so much space and buying so much furniture, Mr. Neumann says, he can renovate and operate an office for a fraction of the cost that companies would normally spend.. We have economies of scale, he said. cut your operational costs between 20 to 50 It might seem like another instance of Mr. talking a big game but for the fact that more and more companies  GE, HSBC, Salesforce and Microsoft among them  are signing on.. For years now, big companies have outsourced payroll processing, janitorial services and security. not a stretch to imagine more of them outsourcing the design and maintenance of their offices to a company like WeWork.. We only have 200,000 members, Mr. McKelvey, 43, said. ridiculous. We need to have two million and then 20 Bankers and lawyers poured out of skyscrapers and made for the suburbs on a recent Monday night in financial district. But at 110 Wall Street, a building controlled entirely by WeWork, the party was just getting started.. Last year, this 1960s-era office tower was converted into a mixed-use development of Mr. design. There is a co-working space. On the ground floor are trendy restaurants including Westville, Fuku, Momofuku Milk Bar and a bar called the Mail Room.. And then there is a WeLive: a complex of about 200 fully furnished apartments rented out on a short-term basis. Tenants get the signature WeWork aesthetic of unpolished wood and wrought iron, as well as various perks. There are hot tubs on the terrace. There are arcade games and a pool table in the laundry room. There are a kitchen and a communal dining room. At a bar on a residential floor, a happy hour was brewing and free Tempranillo was flowing.. The brothers are all in: They live in WeLive, work in the adjacent WeWork space and exercise at nearby gym, Rise.. awesome, Jake DeCicco said. You just roll out of bed, go down the elevator and get to Had Mr. Neumann been there to share a beer, those words would have been music to his ears. He believes that creating a work and living environment where people mingle is in fact a world-changing innovation. Each WeWork has a community manager who keeps tabs on members, makes introductions and organizes social activities.. If more strangers are colliding by the grapefruit water, the thinking goes, they are more likely to meet up and invest in one socially responsible start-ups, and then the world will be a better place.. Once you choose to enter a WeWork, you choose to be part of something more than Mr. Neumann said. People start coming together. see each other in the elevator, they talk in the stairways. a thousand other things they Elevators. Stairways. Hardly world-changing innovations. But WeWork takes extra steps to encourage fraternization. Like beer kegs that never run dry.. More than most companies, WeWork promotes the consumption of alcohol as an inherent virtue. Posters on the wall encourage people to have a drink. There are wine tastings at WeLive. Company parties feature top-shelf liquor. Mr. Neumann has a well-known penchant for tequila, and a well-stocked bar is prominent in his office.. On a recent Tuesday at 4:07 p.m., the community manager of a WeWork in Midtown Manhattan sent an email reading: time to get your creative juices flowing! Join us on the 5th floor to drink some wine & paint a beautiful picture. Just after noon on Day, there was an invitation to share wine and cake in the common area.. But so far nothing  not alcohol, labor disputes, questions about the business fundamentals or bad publicity  has managed to alter the trajectory.. a disrupter of the way people view the spaces they work in on a day-to-day basis, said Mr. Dunlevie of Benchmark. And in the early days of taking advantage of that In September, WeWork will open its most ambitious project to date: a kindergarten. It may also be the effort that tests whether WeWork is flying too close to the sun.. The creation of Mr. wife, Rebekah, 39, the school is known as WeGrow. When it opens, it promises a well-designed space with a curriculum that emphasizes socializing and entrepreneurship for 3-year-olds on up.. WeGrow fits neatly into Mr. expansive vision for creating a generation of empathetic social impact entrepreneurs. But the risk-reward calculus is different when starting a school.. WeGrow scale as rapidly as WeWork has, so the financial upside is limited. Yet should something go wrong, the fallout could be devastating: one thing to be responsible for the internet going out or paper running low at the communal printer. another thing to take responsibility for the health and development of child.. We all understand how complicated and regulated school is compared to the simpler business that we are already in, Mr. Neumann said. But we decided going to go into education. If you really want to change the world, change kids when As he proselytized, Mr. Neumann was sitting on an enormous leather couch in his Chelsea office, which is bigger than many New York City apartments. It included a conference table, a video conferencing setup, several desks, a bar, spreads of food, a Peloton exercise bike, a climbing machine, a boxing bag hanging from the ceiling, a gong, an antechamber where assistants work and a private bathroom.. going to work, Mr. Neumann continued. Is it going to be perfect? Definitely not. Are we going to make mistakes? A hundred percent. Are we going to be comfortable admitting those mistakes? Definitely. what we do Though such unbridled zeal can be abrasive to some, it could also be viewed as the mark of a peripatetic savant. Walter Isaacson, the biographer of Steve Jobs, Albert Einstein, Benjamin Franklin and Leonardo da Vinci, counts Mr. Neumann as a friend, and said he shared some of the attributes that had allowed those other titans to succeed.. It can be tempting to dismiss WeWork as just another overvalued start-up that is high on its own rhetoric and flush with easy money from investors. With little more than faddish interior design, free beer and an invitation to socialize with strangers, Mr. Neumann claims to have conjured up a whole new paradigm for white-collar workers  and for education  and vows that it can change the world.. the kind of utopian prattle that can come off as dangerously out of touch at a moment when a backlash against big tech is brewing. But if any of these potential pitfalls concern Mr. Neumann, he show it.. On this, the first night of festivities, Mr. Neumann would oversee a Shark competition for socially responsible small businesses  ranging from a start-up that made customized prosthetics to a food-delivery service staffed by refugees  each vying for a $1 million prize.. Earlier, Mr. Neumann had rattled off the achievements and outlined some of its more outsize ambitions. As the performer, the Grammy-winning rapper Macklemore, waited backstage, Mr. Neumann went on an impromptu riff about how people should make a life, not just a living, the aspirational motto.. Mr. Neumann also stated that it was important to support social entrepreneurs. Of course that makes a lot of sense, but going to pay for that? he said. And we said, Well, Masa The line generated a laugh among the hundreds of knowing employees in the room  Mr. Son, whose nickname is Masa, was conveniently absent  but it was a tell from Mr. Neumann, a sly admission that at this point he is playing with house money.. Confetti fell from the rafters. The winners cried on stage. Mr. Neumann took it all in, beaming.. Even Macklemore was taken aback by all the money flying around. I was just watching it, chugging a Red Bull, he said shortly into his set, and I immediately thought, Damn, I should have got into 