WASHINGTON — Senator Mitch McConnell said in an interview on Friday afternoon that President Trump should rally behind the Senate candidacy of Mitt Romney despite his blistering criticism in 2016, arguing that Mr. Romney’s potent bid was an illustration of the Republican Party’s improving fortunes entering a challenging midterm campaign.. Mr. McConnell, the majority leader, said that Mr. Romney would enter the Senate with a stature similar to what Hillary Clinton brought as a junior senator. “The best way to think about that, and I told him this a couple of months ago, I said: ‘You’ll be a freshman like Hillary Clinton was,’” Mr. McConnell recalled. “He will come in here with a level of national identity and respect that will make him effective from Day 1.”. “I’m not always with the president on what he might say or do, and if that happens, I’ll call them like I see them, the way I have in the past,” Mr. Romney said at a party dinner in Provo, adding that he largely supports Mr. Trump’s domestic agenda and could work with the White House.. While enthusiastic about the handful of Senate candidates, including Mr. Romney, he has helped recruit, Mr. McConnell offered a sober assessment of what the party faces in the first midterm election of Mr. Trump’s unpopular presidency.. “The odds are that we will lose seats in the House and the Senate,” Mr. McConnell said in the 30-minute interview in his Capitol office, adding: “History tells you that, the fired-up nature of the political left tells you that. We go into this cleareyed that this is going to be quite a challenging election.”. Mr. Corker’s public misgivings, however, have complicated the Tennessee race, where Representative Marsha Blackburn, a staunch conservative, was already lining up support, and where Democrats landed a formidable candidate, former Gov. Phil Bredesen.. Equally delicate is the fate of Senator Thad Cochran of Mississippi, who at 80 has had a series of health problems and whose seat is being eyed by a hard-line state senator, Chris McDaniel, who nearly beat him in a bitter 2014 primary race.. Mr. McConnell called it “premature” to assess the prospect of a special election this year to replace Mr. Cochran, but did acknowledge that “there could be” one. “It’s up to Senator Cochran to make that decision,” he said.. Visiting the White House this past week to help promote Mr. Trump’s infrastructure proposal, Gov. Phil Bryant of Mississippi found himself buttonholed by the president, who, citing the Moore disaster, said that Mr. Bryant should appoint himself to Mr. Cochran’s seat should it become vacant, according to a Republican official briefed on the conversation.. Mr. McConnell has also privately encouraged Mr. Bryant to take the seat if it becomes available, but the governor has so far resisted the entreaties. Republicans close to Mr. Cochran, who is the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, say that while he is not ruling out stepping down this year, he will not contemplate quitting until Congress finishes its 2018 spending bill next month.. More broadly, Mr. McConnell said he was open to intervening in some party primary contests, as he did in the Tea Party era, but would do so on a state-by-state basis.. Mr. McConnell harshly criticized a series of red-state Democrats, but took repeated aim at Mr. Manchin, with whom he has tangled in the past and is plainly eager to beat in a state that has otherwise embraced the Republican Party.. “Joe thinks he can just kind of talk his way through all of this, but talk is really cheap when your record doesn’t meet the rhetoric,” Mr. McConnell said, noting Mr. Manchin’s opposition to a series of Republican measures, including the tax bill.. Mr. McConnell acknowledged that some of his candidates were struggling to raise money — “I concede the fund-raising problem,” he said. But he said it was largely the result of having to face so many incumbents, who are typically better able to draw donors.. Still, he said that a Supreme Court case, scheduled to be argued on Feb. 26, that is expected to curb the ability of public sector unions to automatically deduct dues from their members could have an impact on Democratic fund-raising.. And, without being prompted, Mr. McConnell said he hoped that the court would broadly address what he described as the left’s effort to outlaw gerrymandering.. “What do you think the founding fathers had in mind when they gave it to the state legislatures?” he said of redistricting powers. “They thought it was going to be a political exercise.”. Mr. Trump’s re-election, however, will not be Mr. McConnell’s top priority in 2020: The famously competitive senator, who will be 78 at that point, revealed that he is fully committed to running for re-election and chided this reporter for not assuming as much. 