Let’s say you want to earn some extra pocket cash, but you’re short on free time (and energy). Your phone might be a good place to start. There are quite a few apps designed to help you earn some extra dough, either in the form of gift cards or standard cold, hard cash.. There is a trade-off, however. Nearly any kind of reward app, even the legitimate ones, will track at least some of your personal data.. By signing up for almost any app, you agree to share some personal information. That’s not to say your information isn’t safe, but it’s a good reminder to always make sure you read the fine print before downloading. So what exactly should you look for in an app’s privacy policy?. We looked at dozens of apps that promise to help you make money from the comfort of your smartphone, and most of them aren’t worth your time. Some, however, do what they promise, even if the trade-off is a good bit of your personal data.. If you’re willing to trade, the following (free) apps are well established and can legitimately help you earn cash back. No, you won’t fund your retirement or put a down payment on your home, but you can earn a few bucks to pay for your latte — or dare we suggest avocado toast?. If you don’t mind searching the web, answering surveys or watching videos, you can earn a few “Swagbucks,” which you can then trade in for gift cards at places like Amazon, Starbucks and Home Depot.. Shopkick rewards you for shopping at stores you probably visit anyway: CVS, Marshalls and Best Buy are a few of its partner retailers.. “Shopkick I primarily use in Target,” Ms. Lowe said. “Because why not get rewarded when you’re there? I like that you can cash out your rewards at as little as $2 in gift cards, too. Every little bit helps. I typically stockpile and cash out around Christmas to supplement our budget.”. Once you download the app, you earn points, or “kicks,” every time you spend at partner retailers. You can earn kicks without spending, too, by checking into stores or scanning certain items. While you won’t get cash back directly, you can trade the points for gift cards to dozens of partner retailers. In short, Shopkick essentially works like any other rewards shopping site except there’s no need to hop through a portal to earn your points. Just spend with your card as you normally would.. Ibotta is a couponing app, but instead of getting a discount on your purchases, you get cash-back rebates. You check the app for offers — $1 cash back on a pizza brand, for example — and then either scan your receipt or link the app to your store loyalty cards so your savings are automatic. Ibotta accepts receipts only from participating stores and retailers, but most of the big players are listed: Whole Foods, Walmart, Ralph’s, Kroger, HEB. Some offers will apply to only one retailer; others might be valid at several.. “I use Ibotta regularly and have made $253 so far,” said Jessica Landon, an avid Ibotta user who’s been using the app for about a year and a half. “I usually look up offers before I head in the store, then upload and scan the products right when I get in my car so I don’t forget.” She said staples like produce usually earned only about 25 cents cash back, but it can add up. “Buying beer for my husband usually gets me larger amounts. Diapers is another item that can earn you cash back faster.”. With UserTesting, you get paid to offer feedback on a website. The pay is $10 per test, and it involves visiting a website, completing some tasks, then recording your feedback about the user experience. While you’re visiting the app, UserTesting uses software to record your mouse movements, clicks and your voice. The tasks take about 10 to 20 minutes to complete.. To use the software, you will need an internet connection and a microphone and to be able to download their testing software. If you want to take mobile tests, you’ll need an iPhone, an iPad, an Android phone or an Android tablet. You’re paid via PayPal, which means you can live and use the service to make money as long as you live in a country where PayPal works. 