a question journalists ask themselves, too  and one that informs The coverage of these events on the deepest level. When shootings happen as often as they do, there is a certain similarity to the journalistic script, said the National editor, Marc Lacey. Reporters know where to go and what to ask, and some themes recur from shooting to shooting.. But the logistical playbook an emotional one, he emphasized: Our job is to never allow this to become routine, and to, once we do confirm it, react and cover it aggressively, as though the very first one The National desk receives reports of active gunman situations in the United States at least once a day, Mr. Lacey said, which percolate among many dozens of stories The Times considers in pursuit of the news that will drive the day. Early Wednesday afternoon, as reports of a potential active gunman at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., began to surface on social media, reporters and editors monitored the situation and began to try to confirm details.. The Miami bureau chief, Patricia Mazzei, began making calls, while a correspondent, Audra D. S. Burch, and a stringer, Nick Madigan, were dispatched to the school. By 3:30 p.m., when the front-page meeting is held, editors had the sense it was likely to lead paper. Then came the work of putting together three initial stories: the straightforward news piece, a profile of the suspect and an article on the scene in Parkland.. The National desk hand off the story to other editors until well past midnight, Mr. Lacey said. We were here again maybe five, six hours later, starting up again. By early Thursday afternoon, less than 24 hours after the shooting, he estimated at least 25 reporters and 15 editors were working on the story.. Elsewhere in the newsroom on Wednesday, the video and graphics teams began spinning up. Steve Duenes, an assistant managing editor and head of the Graphics desk, said that in breaking news events, the team starts by focusing on the scene.. Video team producers watched while the full sweep of the attack came into view. But, helped by the ubiquity of recording technology and smartphones, they could begin pulling in visuals right away. We were looking at how people were evacuated, and it seemed like half of the students were filming it, said Mark Schleffler, the news director. The first Times video went up in under two hours  one of their faster turnarounds. One of the lessons learned is that people just want to know what happened, Mr. Schleffler said. We try to just capture the visceral moment on a first The Express Desk, a general assignment team that helps other desks with breaking news reporting and editing, monitored television broadcasts and social media feeds for more developments. Twitter, especially, can be a fruitful source of details  but also a dangerous one, susceptible to being clouded by misinformation, both unintentional and not. I start with the basic assumption that everything seeing is wrong, old or fake  and thus unusable, said Daniel Victor, an Express reporter. Then I work toward proving that genuine, only then considering it for The repetition wears on journalists just as it wears on everyone. Nobody enjoys covering mass shootings. Nobody does, Mr. Lacey said. Every American feels helpless about these awful But, he added, he hopes the journalists he leads feel proud of their role in informing the public. your role in perhaps changing society, he said, by letting people know what actually occurred. 