These changes are driven by culture and economics, factors that vary widely depending on location and clientele. But the common thread is a need to diversify revenue, as well as the sad truth that cheap drinks and cheap food alone will often no longer support these hulking old buildings and the people who work in them.. The last renovation happened a decade ago, leaving the interior with wood-paneled walls covered in various memorabilia: old photos, vintage advertisements, license plates, taxidermied animals (a kookaburra, a raven, a ringtail possum). In the winter, bartenders pull double duty slinging drinks and stoking the leaping flames in the huge brick fireplace.. Alistair Derham, the owner, has been proactive in balancing tradition with the needs of a modern urban clientele. There are no televisions, but there are USB outlets under the bar to charge your phone. There are cheap beers, and there are craft beers. The back bar holds some truly exciting local whiskeys and gins. And in terms of food, the pub classics are all available, done very well with little to no gourmet pretensions.. Here is a chicken Parma, the classic Australian pub meal that puts a breaded, fried chicken cutlet under a slice of ham, a layer of red sauce and melted cheese, and over a pile of fries. The sauce is house-made, with a hint of smokiness; the cheese is blistered perfectly. no tinkering with the form, no cleverness. It is just a very good Parma.. But maybe not in the mood for a Parma or a pub steak (though the porterhouse here is wonderful). Perhaps, instead, you have a hankering for rare wallaby leg with mustard cream and capers. The New Sydney can help you there as well.. The easiest way to gauge the breadth of Mr. ambitions is to order the $55 six-course tasting menu, but his more modern efforts are available  la carte as well. Southern Tasmanian calamari comes crisped over spiced carrots, some of which have been roasted to a caramelized sear, others turned into a sweet Pickled seaweed salad and furikake take the dish in a somewhat kaleidoscopic direction, in terms of both texture and flavor.. Mr. Clemens takes the classic Christmas ham and turns it on its head, serving pork croquettes with charred pineapple, then ramping up the tropical element by adding coconut and chile. The blowtorch comes into play with a starter of Wagyu, which is cut thin and dramatically scorched at the table by your waiter. It is not the only silly but fun cooking method. Sometimes a hot rock is provided, with elaborate instructions about how to cook bits of seafood or meat. Sometimes given a warm salt rock, which seasons and cooks simultaneously.. There are times when Mr. cooking runs slightly askew, when the copious cross-cultural influences muddy the experience. But given the location and price and sheer fun of it all, the main takeaway of this food is joy.. If nothing else, you should consider patronizing the New Sydney for the people-watching. The customers are as varied and fascinating as the cacophony of memorabilia that adorns its wood-paneled walls.. On a recent midweek evening, a family with two young children tucked into an overwhelming platter of roasted lamb, served with pita bread and salad and dips, like a giant deconstructed souvlaki. Nearby, a group of drinkers in their early 20s gossiped about their favorite new cookbooks, remarking on the chefs and recipes the way my friends and I used to discuss musicians and songs. A biker couple nestled into the comfy corner nook near the front windows. At the bar, a few weather-worn older dudes sat in the time-honored pub stance: elbows out, one hand on a cold beer, talking in low, friendly voices.. Everyone fits right in at the New Sydney, and it gives me hope for the future of the great Australian pub. Which is saying something, because that future is far from certain. 