An apartment on Central Park has long commanded a premium, but as real estate prices have soared, blocking all but the most affluent from buying a perch there or along one of New other premier greenswards, developers have increasingly sought out sites on smaller, non-marquee parks.. An address on Isham Park or Herbert Von King Park may not have quite the same ring as one on Prospect Park or Gramercy Park, but in a market where buyers can become dizzy trying to distinguish one marble-kitchened, white oak-floored condo from another, a view of treetops swaying outside the living room window is a distinctive edge.. Even more significant, an apartment on even a pocket park comes with more light, air and open sky than an identical unit that faces another building  and a near-guarantee that no towering new development will take those advantages away.. Far from a happy accident, finding development sites on small parks is very much a conscious strategy, Mr. Schuster said. We map out a bunch of city and state parks and then we walk around. In addition to parks, we also map out landmark buildings  places where you know the views will be While such parks may lack the splendor of Central or Prospect Parks, unsung green spaces can claim near-equivalent benefits: In addition to extra light and sky, many offer playgrounds, dog runs, farmers markets, a bench to read a book, or a lawn for a picnic.. Many cities prize their waterfronts above all else, but Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the real estate appraisal and consulting firm Miller Samuel, said that New York is a bit different. One of the things about Manhattan is that inward looking, he said. more into our park views than our water Which could have something to do with Robert Moses, the major builder last century of New York City infrastructure  and the fact that nearly all of waterfront views have highways in them. But whatever the reason, living on even a small park does make a difference to buyers. And, ultimately, the value.. When it comes to pricing, however, expectations should be modest: According to Mr. Miller, apartments on Central Park are only about 10 to 15 percent more than those on a side street if below the tree-line, and 15 to 25 percent more if above. And any analysis of prices for park-facing units comes with a caveat: Developers are more likely to put the largest apartments where the best views are, and also a premium for more contiguous space.. Toni Martin, an associate broker with the Corcoran Group, said that anytime she has a listing on a park  be it Von King Park in Bedford-Stuyvesant, or Washington Park in Park Slope  it gets snapped up fast. Fort Greene Park is such a huge draw that seen bidding wars for condos in townhouses half a block away. One of her clients lost a bidding war for a 950-square-foot two-bedroom in one such building. It was a nice apartment, but nothing overwhelming. And it was a fourth-floor walk-up! Ms. Martin said, adding that the place sold for $125,000 over the asking price.. In a city as dense as New York, to live next to something green is a beautiful thing, she said.. Of course, not all buyers come to tour a new condo with a strong desire to live on a small square or playground whose name they might not even know.. To be honest, never been to that park, said Mr. Duck, who previously owned a condo on Second Avenue and East 92nd Street. But I had just come back from working in Hong Kong for several years, where I lived very high up, on the 37th floor. I got used to that light and I wanted to find something that just looking into an adjacent I tell you the site was appealing just because of the community garden, said Boaz Gilad, the chief executive and a founder of Brookland. But if I can give you a park, I condos are priced to attract younger first-time buyers  a price point that usually afford to be on a park. But Mr. Gilad said that buyers and renters like even a small piece of greenery they feel like they can have access In my mind, parks are one of the best parts of New York and the perfect complement to the built environment, he said. I spend my weekends taking my 20-month-old daughter to different Brooklyn parks. 