The special treatment for the Fitzgerald trucks is made possible by a loophole in federal law that the Obama administration tried to close, and the Trump administration is now championing. The trucks, originally intended as a way to reuse a relatively new engine and other parts after an accident, became attractive for their ability to evade modern emissions standards and other regulations.. This just does not make any sense to me, said Christine Todd Whitman, who served as head of the E.P.A. during the first George W. Bush administration. Everybody breathes the same air, Democrats or Republicans. It does not matter. This is about keeping people Tommy Fitzgerald, an owner of Fitzgerald, said the actions by Ms. Black and Mr. Pruitt were good public policy and not special favors to his company.. I know why anyone would want to kill all these jobs, Mr. Fitzgerald said, referring to the several hundred people he said he employs at his dealerships, many of them in rural areas. It does not make any Chris Hartline, a spokesman for Ms. Black, said the congresswoman had stood up for a constituent and was not influenced by the campaign donations, which he said complied with state law. There are very few companies willing to try and keep manufacturing jobs in rural Tennessee today, and Diane fights hard to support the few that do, Mr. Hartline said.. An E.P.A. spokeswoman, Liz Bowman, said that Mr. Pruitt remained committed to protecting clean air. But, she said, he agreed with a legal argument made by Ms. Black and Fitzgerald that the agency did not have the authority to limit sales.. E.P.A. is acting on behalf of anyone who sees merit in upholding and perhaps even bolstering the credibility of our laws and the role of Congress, Ms. Bowman said.. She said that the money donated to Ms. Black had no impact on the decision by Mr. Pruitt.. The trucks sold by Fitzgerald are known as because they are manufactured without engines and are later retrofitted with the rebuilt ones. Gliders are popular among small trucking companies and individual truck owners, who say they cannot afford to buy or operate vehicles with new engines and modern emissions controls.. Dealers like Fitzgerald buy truck bodies from Peterbilt, Freightliner and other manufacturers and typically install 1990s-era engines, recovered from salvage yards, that its employees rebuild down to their cores. The used engines and other remanufactured parts allow dealers to claim that the new trucks predate emissions requirements, and therefore should be exempt.. A Fitzgerald salesman boasted last week that all 150 trucks on the Crossville lot had been sold as trucking companies rushed to avoid the Obama-era emissions standards and the electronic tracking rule.. We cannot build them quick enough, said the salesman, Cody Poston. A second Fitzgerald salesman said the company had pending customer orders for 300 more and had about 2,000 glider trucks on the way to his sales lot.. Matt Moorehead, who helps maintain trucks at the CB Trucking garage in Cookeville, said glider trucks allow small companies and individual drivers to compete with big trucking companies.. He said the trucks are easier to repair and, by some accounts, burn less diesel fuel per mile. And by avoiding the electronic tracking system, drivers can continue to use paper logs, which can be more easily manipulated to allow flexibility in driving and rest times.. When you got a load of eggs and milk to deliver, these rules can force you to stop driving when you are just a few miles short of your destination, he said of the electronic tracking.. Terry Dotson, president of Worldwide Equipment Enterprises, a Kentucky-based chain of truck dealerships that sells vehicles with modern emissions controls, said he remembered going into repair garages years ago when it was hard to breathe because of soot.. Mr. Dotson says he voted for President Trump and is a strong backer of the coal industry, which relies on his trucks for mining operations. But he does not agree with the carve-out for glider trucks.. I want Mr. Fitzgerald to make a fortune and be a happy man, Mr. Dotson said outside one of his Knoxville, Tenn., dealerships. But everybody ought to play by the same set of Chet France, former director of assessment and standards at the E.P.A. Office of Transportation and Air Quality, says there are enough truck engines in salvage yards to support the glider market for decades.. We are talking about super-polluting trucks that are going to put the health of thousands of people at risk, said Mr. France, who worked at the E.P.A. for 30 years under Democratic and Republican administrations and is a consultant to the Environmental Defense Fund. And for The health threats are caused by nitrogen oxide and tiny particles of dust and soot that create haze in the air.. When testing the glider trucks in stop-and-go traffic, the E.P.A. report said, the testing equipment shut down because of the extreme level of particulates.. In recent weeks, other questions have been raised about the accuracy of the Tennessee Tech study, the role engineering experts at the university played in it, and the relationship between Fitzgerald and the university.. Some faculty members say the university appears to have been used by Fitzgerald as part of its lobbying campaign.. The public comment period on Mr. intention to repeal the annual cap on glider trucks has passed. Ms. Bowman, the E.P.A. spokeswoman, says the agency is now reviewing the comments before Mr. Pruitt announces a final decision.. Continuing to improve air quality is a stated priority of Administrator Ms. Bowman said. Any comments received that raise concerns with the ability to maintain that goal are closely considered and At sales lot, employees said last week that there was no need to worry about pollution from the trucks, adding that they had emissions test results to prove it.. They are just as clean, Mr. Poston said of the gliders, compared with modern trucks, if not cleaner. 