When it comes to educational dysfunction, the Hempstead school district in Nassau County on Long Island is in a class by itself.. Still, despite the decades of mismanagement, the State Department of Education has done little beyond issuing threats. Now, amid a new round of infighting and charges of corruption, the education commissioner, MaryEllen Elia, has given the district until Friday to submit a plan for how it will turn itself around. But if the board does not come through with a substantive plan, or does not appear prepared to implement it, it is unclear what steps she and the Legislature are prepared to take.. a zoo, said Roger Tilles, who represents Long Island on the State Board of Regents. been following it for 13 years and it has not gotten any The years of failure in Hempstead show how difficult it can be to effect real educational change given the constraints of local school control and the racial and socioeconomic segregation that compounds challenges.. Hempstead has close to 8,000 students. Seventy percent are Hispanic, and many of those are recent immigrants. Nearly 40 percent of students are not proficient in English, and 70 percent come from families who are on some form of public assistance.. Any district with these demographics would face challenges, but Hempstead is unusually troubled. Power on the school board swings back and forth between different factions, whose main interest, according to outside observers, is patronage. Board officials and employees have faced criminal charges  from a board member who stole a A.T.M. card and withdrew $500, to a high school teacher who is accused of stealing $140,000 worth of computers. There have been accusations of corruption involving contractors and multiple charges of fraud or irregularities in board elections.. Everything is about controlling jobs and controlling resources, said Alan J. Singer, a professor of education at Hofstra University. As a result, all the factions seem to be sacrificing the needs of Recent months have seen a typical level of turmoil in the leadership, as board members have battled over allegations of campaign improprieties in last election, which led to a shift of power on the board.. Dr. Waronker denied tenure to the principal of Hempstead High School, Stephen Strachan, accusing him of failing to report weapons confiscated at the school and of keeping some weapons in his office. He later said Mr. Strachan claimed a doctorate from what Dr. Waronker called a diploma As soon as the new faction took power, it put the brakes on Dr. agenda, firing the master teachers and canceling the contract with his nonprofit. It also fired a law firm that Dr. Waronker said was investigating possible corruption in the food service program and rehired two other law firms that an external audit had found to have charged exorbitant fees. It reinstated Mr. Strachan, who in an interview said he was not aware of there being any truth to Dr. accusations.. Over just a few days in January, Dr. Waronker posted a letter on the website, accusing the board majority of stymieing his effort to transform the district and of patronage, vendettas, threats and cover-ups. The State Education Department released a scathing report prepared by a retired superintendent, detailing the record of dismal results and questionable spending, and effectively criticizing both the board and Dr. Waronker. And, the next night, in a raucous meeting, the board majority voted to put Dr. Waronker on leave and ban him from school property.. Dr. Waronker has now sued the district and the board in federal court, seeking to be reinstated.. In an interview, Dr. Waronker said he believed the school board majority had removed him because he was uncovering evidence of corruption, which he said he could not describe because he had passed it on to law enforcement. (The Nassau County district office declined to comment.). He said that, just as he was driving into the high school on Dec. 7 for a school board meeting, someone had fired several gunshots into a building on the corner, and that around the same time, nearby, someone had fired into a car parked outside his office.. They follow you over there; they track your movements  not to sound paranoid, he said.. But he said that he would not back down. willing to risk my life for the kids, he said, adding, Most people there in the district are The takeover lasted 11 years and is not generally regarded as a success: The state spent millions of dollars; some of the leaders it appointed were problematic; and the results improved only marginally.. Hempstead and Roosevelt are among the poorest and most segregated districts in Nassau County. According to state records, Roosevelt did not have a single white student in the 2016-17 school year. Roughly 2 percent of students were white. Nassau population overall is 61 percent white, according to census records. In the district just north of Hempstead, Garden City, 88 percent of the students are white.. Dr. Singer, the Hofstra professor, said he felt the decision to take over the Roosevelt district was a way for it to avoid dealing with the larger segregation issue.. In interviews, parents and students in the Hempstead district expressed distress about the schools, in particular the violence at the middle and high schools. According to the report prepared for the state by the retired superintendent, Jack Bierwirth, there were more than 50 fights at the high school between September and early December.. It disrupts me from learning in class, said Tamia Grant, 17, a senior at the high school. She said she hears the students fighting right outside her classrooms. The doors are so thin, like plexiglass, and they knock into the door, she said. "My teacher has to stop what doing to lock the door, because scared that come into our Several Hispanic parents said that they felt that Hispanic students and families were particularly marginalized. They said that there were no Spanish interpreters at school meetings or at parent-teacher conferences.. I always go to my kids meetings, but they say no one there that speaks Spanish, so I understand what they say to me, said Emily Flores, 40, an immigrant from Mexico who has two children at Hempstead High School. Ms. Flores spoke in Spanish through an interpreter.. Dr. Waronker, who grew up in South America and speaks fluent Spanish, had made a particular effort to connect with Hispanic families, said the Rev. Luis Miguel Romero, the pastor of Our Lady of Loretto, a local Roman Catholic church. Among other things, Father Romero said that Dr. Waronker had personally offered a course to parents at the church about how they could help in their education.. Father Romero said that he was distressed by the school decision to put Dr. Waronker on leave.. It is jeopardizing the only hope that we have seen in Hempstead, he said.. Ms. Elia, who visited the district in mid-January, said that it was too soon to say what options would be on the table if the response did not prove to her that it could address the issues raised in the state report. The commissioner has the authority in some circumstances to remove individual school board members, but she would need to be empowered by the Legislature to fire and replace the whole board.. Obviously, removing someone from elected position is not something that any agency or anyone would want to do lightly, she said. But, she said, made it very clear to them that we are not going to allow this district to not focus their attention on the needs of the children there. 