Freud is still dead, but psychoanalysis may be experiencing a rebirth.. The four day psyche-fest was a bonanza of seminars, from the doctrinaire to the esoteric, the practical to the political. You could bone up on telepathic dreams and the quantum hologram, which has something to do with parapsychological phenomena and was way, way over this head. Another seminar examined A Streetcar Named Desire from a structural and relational psychoanalytic perspective.. There were talks on collaborative care in low-income communities; working with technologies like video conferencing; and how to influence health care and other public policies. A session on the ethics of mental health professionals commenting on public figures had drawn nearly 300 sign-ups at last count.. There seem to be a lot of unreconstructed Freudians hanging around  or Lacanians, for that matter  though you could imbibe the canon at a seminar on the Wolf Man, or at another on the correspondence between Freud and his Sandor Ferenczi, and their falling out, which turned into a lively conversation about boundary violations and how ideas about them have evolved.. One attendee recalled a bruising he received from his supervisor when he was a resident and had given a patient a New Yorker cartoon. He spent six months torturing me, he said of the supervisor. What was the scandalous cartoon? I remember, repressed Eyeing a reporter, another attendee joked, I want the press to think we kiss our patients on the But we are getting ahead of ourselves. Tuesday was the new attendees cocktail party, where the mood was almost effervescent, indicating that those in the psychoanalytic community appear to have social anxieties  or perhaps have learned to cope with them. Jamie Steele, 36, a licensed family therapist in Atlanta who sported true-to-nature-size tattoos of tulips and other flowers on both arms, said she had been working on a Ph.D. in philosophy when she was seduced by psychoanalytic theory, and pivoted.. Now, she is a year into her training at Emory University Psychoanalytic Institute. I have a big interest in how technology impacts our psyche, she said, how the performance of the self creates a disconnect. Psychoanalysis speaks to us in a way that contemporary modalities and theories Clinicians are seeking a different way of working with Ms. Freeman, of Smith, works with homeless individuals who are addicted to opioids, and she uses relational psychoanalysis with these patients (her curriculum, she said, is based on psychodynamic theory). My folks doing heroin because they picked it up one day, she said, referring to her patients. There was trauma, and the drugs are just a symptom. You understand a person if you know the Also in attendance that night was Stephanie Siegmund, 29, a medical student at Columbia Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, where she is learning to become a better listener and a better doctor, she said.. If psychoanalysis continues to have an existential crisis  battered by managed care, challenged by short-term approaches like cognitive behavioral therapy and medication  it is a paradigm that remains dear to this group.. The American Psychoanalytic Association (known as APsaA), which was founded 107 years ago, reports that the number of candidates in psychoanalytic training at its institutes is up slightly from 5 years ago, from 794 to 827. That figure take into account candidates at the more than 50 institutes around the country that under the purview of APsaA, which is affiliated with more than 30. Training can take from two to four years, and includes personal therapy.. Certainly members are a tad defensive about what Harriet Wolfe, the president of APsaA, sees as reflexive Freud bashing.. The profession may still be fighting social trends and a health care system looking for fast cures, she said, but it long ago moved on from strict dogma to embrace a range of modern clinical theories, social advocacy and research. A traditional course of psychoanalytic treatment still means seeing a therapist several times a week for years or even decades  and yes, there are still couches. The paradox is that in this chaotic society, Dr. Wolfe said, psychoanalysis has never been needed so Last February, a group of psychiatrists, psychologists and social workers wrote a letter to The New York Times averring that President Trump was mentally unstable and that the various pathologies they had diagnosed him with made him unfit for public office. It was a refutation of the so-called Goldwater Rule, adopted by the American Psychiatric Association in 1973, which said that giving a public figure a mental diagnosis without seeing him or her was unethical.. The A.P.A., a much larger group of psychotherapists than the APsaA, struck back, maintaining its policy among its members. But Dr. organization issued a statement granting its own members the freedom to air their opinions, and many of them did and continue to do so.. At the cocktail party on Tuesday, no one seemed to know the precise definition of the Goldwater Rule, but many were aware of the barrage of diagnoses that have been attached to the president, and appeared happy to contribute their own.. Borderline personality disorder and narcissistic personality disorder, said Ms. Freeman, cautioning that because she have her degree yet, she technically have the power to diagnose anyone.. Lara Weyland, 57, a practicing psychologist who is now in her second year at the San Francisco Center for Psychoanalysis, said, heard him described as a malignant narcissist or an exhibiting narcissist. I say borderline. a question of degrees: Malignant or exhibiting are on the extreme ends of narcissism. This is a person whose thinking is so solipsistic, they really feel quite certain that what they think is how things are. He is so unfiltered, he invites people to see him in the way a psychoanalyst she added, I think that what diagnosed with is not as important as pointing out to people that it matters what people say, and we say he mean it even though he said Dr. Wolfe would not tender a diagnosis. I think well advised to be cautious about how we use diagnostic language for public figures, she said. I think it really help. We need to reach those who can do something about the 25th Amendment, rather than throwing out labels. 