One by one, our children  James Foley of New Hampshire, Steven Sotloff of Florida, Peter Kassig of Indiana and Kayla Mueller of Arizona  were taken from us by the hateful criminals of the Islamic State.. The question now is what will happen to these deluded sadists, who remain in the custody of the Syrian Kurdish fighters who captured them. The F.B.I. has had access to interrogate them. The British government long ago rescinded their citizenship and seems to want nothing further to do with them. They should be brought to America to face our justice system.. We want the world to know that we agree with the longstanding British government position that it would be a mistake to send killers like these to the military prison at Bay, or to seek the death penalty in court. Either path would make them martyrs in the eyes of their fanatic, misled comrades in arms  the worst outcome.. Instead, they should be tried in our fair and open legal system, or in a court of international justice, and then spend the rest of their lives in prison. That is what our children would have wanted.. Mr. Kotey and Mr. Elsheikh captured our children in 2012 and 2013. They had recruited others to promote their twisted view of the world, and tormented their captives simply for being Americans. Just as the Sept. 11 attacks was a horrific assault on our country, the public beheadings of Jim, Steven and Peter were a deliberate, defiant assault on all of us; so was the torture by other fanatics that Kayla endured before her death.. The Islamic State wants to intimidate us and lure us into a similar hatred of them. But we must be true to our commitment to humanity.. Jim, Steven, Peter and Kayla were like so many of your own sons and daughters. They were four unique, passionate young Americans. They cared about others, which led them to Syria, for different purposes. Jim and Steven were courageous conflict journalists, daring to bear witness to the Syrian thirst for freedom and the threat of violent jihad; Peter and Kayla were committed, compassionate humanitarians who responded to suffering. All risked their lives pursuing a greater good, as our military does, and as many other journalists and humanitarians do.. We hope a trial of these two dangerous men would lead to the capture of others, equally culpable, who seek to hide amid frightened refugees, and to an end to the impunity that allowed the Islamic State to spread. When such hate-filled perpetrators are captured, brought to a public trial and held accountable for their evil deeds, we hope their contagious hatred will begin to abate. It is a necessary first step.. These men should face justice in a public courtroom because they are criminals, not soldiers. They imprisoned unarmed civilians, then sadistically abused and murdered them. They are cowards, not warriors. The Islamic State is a delusional and exploitative cult, not a state.. Our first choice would be to try them in a federal criminal court, where they belong because their victims were Americans. Force them to be judged by a jury of our compatriots. Give them the fair trial that makes our nation great. Let that show the world how wrong the Islamic State is about America. That would be the best way to honor our children.. As parents who have lost children to violence, we also ask for life imprisonment for these men. Execution could be misconstrued as martyrdom, perpetuating violence and diminishing stature as a defender of human rights.. If, as a nation, we truly believe that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, then let us be above the brutality and hatred of the Islamic State.. In remembrance of our brave Jim, Steven, Peter and Kayla, let us treat their captors with the justice and humanity we would have wanted for our children and for ourselves.. Let us remember that real greatness lies in the moral courage to do what is right and just, even in the face of the opposite. 