hoped that, after elimination last week, a dairy-free workroom might equal a bit of peace, but no.. The opportunity for a narrative caught eye, as did a note posted in Trixie workstation from Thorgy Thor, who was eliminated in Episode 2. The note included a pointed jab at Shangela, referring to her as a shady, shady bitch, in surprisingly nice handwriting  I suppose when constantly journaling about all the people wronged you, your penmanship will flourish.. She was sad and honoring her, Trixie explained, then tore off the offending portion, perhaps realizing a joke from Thorgy  who deserves special commendation for stirring the pot from off-site; reach  may not be the best sword to fall on.. No, girl, leave it, said Shangela, been hurt in past seasons by remarks from fellow queens she considered friends. Now I know the way you really Oh my god, get out of my station, Trixie snapped. (She later offered a more sincere apology.). I mean to discredit feelings, which I do believe are genuine. But she is also a moment artisan. And in what was anticipated to be a big week for Trixie, who desperately wanted a win to complement her success beyond the show, was Shangela trying to rattle her, just a bit?. Trixie announced be impersonating RuPaul, to a workroom full of stares. Every time I do RuPaul in front of people they think hilarious, she said. gonna win the You sound real confident, sis, Aja said, with a hint of friendly warning.. I am, Trixie replied, missing it.. The real RuPaul entered the workroom, with the designer Marc Jacobs, to walk around and instill doubt. (Jacobs, curiously, was not there for a fashion challenge  perhaps they were getting lunch and Ru was like, Just a sec, I have to tape this, come Your accent sounded a little like Ireland, RuPaul told Shangela, who shelved her plans to be Miss Cleo then and there.. During the challenge, BenDeLaCreme killed with an inspired, pitch-perfect Paul Lynde, while Kennedy flopped as Phaedra Parks, of The Real Housewives of Atlanta. (Both won Snatch Game in their respective seasons.) Aja did fine as a salty Crystal LaBeija, from the 1968 pageant documentary The Queen, as did BeBe Zahara Benet, as Grace Jones. Shangela wisely opted for Jenifer Lewis, a personal friend she channeled loud and clear. Chi Chi DeVayne, on the other hand, faltered as Maya Angelou, misspelling Ms. name right out of the gate.. The guest judge Kristin Chenoweth played as well. I always thought that one of these queens would do me, and no one ever did, so I decided to come here and do me, Ms. Chenoweth said, singing a high note, something I worry she does in restaurants.. Sweetheart, none of these queens are gonna do ya, BenDeLaCreme, as Mr. Lynde, quipped.. And Trixie started out with a decent RuPaul impression that probably does get laughs in small doses but be sustained. won an uncomfortable phone call to your ex and a half-eaten hot dog from the back of my car, she interjected after another answer, and Michelle Visage looked on, frozen, like an aunt at the Olympics whose niece just fell on the ice.. The next Flower Power runway was accelerated, with just quick shots of each look, which generally portends a post-runway storm in need of airtime.. Aja, super cute in neon, was safe. So was BeBe, luscious in monochromatic dark blossoms. BenDeLaCreme, covered in orchids and shimmering butterflies, was named top two for the fourth week in a row. She was joined by Shangela, done up in a nod to floral-wreathed pregnancy announcement photo.. In the bottom: the inconsistent Kennedy, who was last winner; Chi Chi, lovely in lilies but adrift in the challenge; and a kaleidoscopically effloresced Trixie, who cried while the camera zoomed in.. I get nervous here, she admitted. like at Camp Crystal Lake and outside with the forget what you have, and what you offer, and who you are, whether this continues or not, Ms. Chenoweth said. the producers of hit Viceland show added, at home.). Backstage, the top two took meetings. really proud of you for continuing to plug away at this, BenDeLaCreme told Chi Chi, sounding a bit like the teacher of that painting class I have taken.. Meanwhile, Aja  who has calmly consoled so many queens backstage this season  sat with a vulnerable Trixie. not afraid of drag in the real world, Trixie said, and I felt for her. gifted, perhaps just not at Drag Thank you guys so much! Chi Chi said, waving. sad to go, but I think I did the best that I could, she added backstage, smiling. Stars 3 was Finally: a gracious exit. God, I love Chi Chi. Does she bake? If she can get to the U.K., and get a consistent layer of jam between two Victoria sponges, a show like to see her on.. Will Shangela get played? Will Trixie finally triumph? Does Aja see sliding scale patients? Until next week. 