This plan also has a number of significant flaws. But it is a breadth away from something meaningful and doable  if only Mr. Rubio and Ms. Trump could think just a bit bigger.. Mr. plan also penalizes families for having more children  each additional leave would mean another delay in retirement  and continues to view the problem of how to juggle work and child rearing as a private concern instead of a collective issue in need of a collective solution.. But for all its flaws, Mr. new venture could begin to carve out a path toward something meaningful. He just needs to get over the idea of making people pay for their own benefits and expand the scope of his ambitions.. So Republicans just offered ample evidence that they actually care about paying for the things they want. If we agree that people deserve income when they need to take family leave, and that adding to the deficit matter when the goals are worthy, then we can focus on putting together the right solution.. Mr. Rubio and Ms. Trump should drop their worries about cost and expand their vision. They could pledge to offer Americans 12 paid weeks off not just for the arrival of a new child, but also if they fall sick or need to care for a family member. They could nix the idea that parents have to pay for their own benefits out of Social Security.. Mr. Rubio and Ms. Trump even have to start from scratch. Democratic lawmakers have already repeatedly introduced a bill that would do all of these very things: the Family Act.. Whether they think so or not, Mr. Rubio and Ms. Trump are lighting the way toward an effective system of paid family leave a quarter-century after we enacted unpaid leave during the first Clinton administration. Their plan, if passed as is, would penalize those least able to shoulder an extra burden. But it offers plenty of openings to make changes, both now and in the future.. Right now, the only industrialized country that guarantee paid maternity leave. Together, Mr. Rubio and Ms. Trump just might get us out of this rut and into good company. 