8 Min Read SEOUL (Reuters) - Only weeks into a new job heading General Motors international operations, Barry Engle flew into a frigid South Korea in January and held a series of meetings with government officials to discuss the future of loss-making local unit.  In what they thought were meet-and-greet introductions, senior officials agreed to work with the global automaker on problems at GM Korea, according to South Korean officials with direct knowledge of the meetings.      Last week, Engle made another visit, meeting with the head of state-run Korea Development Bank, which owns 17 percent of GM Korea. Bank and government officials said Engle asked for financial support and in return, KDB suggested an audit before it would consider committing any fresh funding.   South Korea officials said they left reassured they were making progress working through issues, albeit slowly.  Then came the bombshell.   On Tuesday morning, GM announced it would shut its Gunsan plant, which employs 2,000, and decide the future of the remaining three other Korean plants within weeks.   only talked about the difficult situation they were in, and asked for our help, but did not say a word about the closure before. It was a shock to a South Korean government official said.  The discord and lack of communications point to rocky negotiations ahead as South Korea seeks to prevent further job losses and provide support for a critical part of its manufacturing sector while avoiding criticism for spending tax money to support private industry.   The tensions also come at a difficult time for U.S.-South Korean relations given U.S. President Donald determination to renegotiate the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement. Any undermining of the Seoul-Washington relationship could also factor against efforts to pressure North Korea over its nuclear and missile programs.      ROOTED      The government official and another source said GM informed Seoul about the decision in a phone call only the evening before its announcement.  The sources declined to be identified because of the sensitive ongoing nature of the matter.  A GM Korea spokesman confirmed the company notified the government about Gunsan closure on Monday, but said the matter had been already discussed and approved by the board, including board members nominated by KDB, last week.  plan to seek full support from government and other stakeholders about our turnaround he said.   KDB declined to comment.   South government said it deeply regretted unilateral decision and any aid would depend on new investment into its Korean operations.  GM said it will invest if it is successful in with our stakeholders to restructure and get to a viable cost      is deep rooted distrust about GM among government officials. Trust has collapsed a long time a person familiar with the South Korean thinking said.   KDB believes GM Korea has not shared sufficient information about its finances or the cause of its mounting losses, this person added.    The GM Korea spokesman said it will explain its to the government during upcoming discussions.   South Korea was for years a low-cost export hub for GM, producing close to a fifth of its global output at its peak.   But the decisions to exit other unprofitable markets have exacerbated problems for GM Korea, which used to build many of the Chevrolet models GM once offered in Europe.  In December 2013, GM announced its decision to pull Chevrolet out of Europe. Last year, GM agreed to sell its Opel and Vauxhall brands in Europe to PSA Group      GM Korea, which South trade ministry says directly employs nearly 16,000 workers and supports another 140,000 jobs in its supply chain, posted a total of 1.9 trillion won ($1.8 billion) in net losses between 2014 and 2016.   A further complication is pressure from the administration of U.S. President Donald Trump to address the U.S. trade imbalance with South Korea and bring manufacturing back to the United States.       is putting pressure on GM to shift production to is Government Motors, not General the person said.   However, the GM Korea spokesman said: Gunsan plant announcement is related to our need to restructure our business in South and is not being done for political reasons.   Sources familiar with future planning say the global production strategy is still fluid, but GM could shift production out of Korea to an existing plant in another country.  announcement of the Gunsan plant shutdown and launch of voluntary redundancy plans have come at a worse time.  Many salaried South Koreans get bonuses and gifts to celebrate Lunar New Year holiday.   South Korean officials are also in the middle of hosting the Winter Olympic Games and have been focused lowering tensions with North Korea, which sent a high level delegation last week.  A Detroit-based source at GM told Reuters the timing of the announcement was dictated by urgency of the matter as its 2018 wage negotiations with South Korean workers have begun. Top management decided the time had come to put a lid on the losses, starting with closure of the Gunsan plant, the person said.  approach has prompted speculation in South Korea that the automaker is seeking to maximize pressure on President Moon administration, which has touted job creation as its top economic policy.   out or not, the decision will be inevitably a political said Yun Chang-hyun, an economics professor at Seoul National University.   and lawmakers representing regions affected will come forward to push the government to help the company. But a painkiller do, what GM needs is a major  Hong Young-pyo, a ruling party lawmaker from Bupyeong where GM biggest factory is based, said he had met Angle early this month, and he did not hear about the shutdown.   course, I was he said. has repeatedly said they are not considering withdrawing from the he said GM Korea needs government help and restructuring to normalize its  Now, the outlook is uncertain, Hong said.  should prepare for the possibility of exit. I see a 50 percent chance of complete Hong said.   Shareholder KDB, meanwhile, said it has lost a key bargaining chip.   KDB said a veto power on strategic decisions it held as part of an agreement with GM expired last October, leaving South Korea with few legal options if GM wants to pull out of the country.   have to find out first how sustainable GM Korea is. We just pour taxpayers money as a ransom to keep GM from leaving the one government official said.  In Gunsan at least, GM Korea workers are downbeat.  the closure has become a said Kim Gyo-myoung, a 58-year-old GM worker. if the government injects funds, it probably be the amount that satisfies GM. I see a  Reporting by Ju-min Park, Cynthia Kim and Hyunjoo Jin SEOUL; Additional reporting by Joe White and Paul Lienert DETROIT and Norihiko Shirouzu in SHANGHAI; Writing by Miyoung Kim; Editing by Lincoln Feast 