Twenty-five years ago, long before the popularization of “yes means yes” or #MeToo or #TimesUp, the cast of “Saturday Night Live” made Antioch College — and its controversial rules about sexual consent — a punchline.. A group of women at the small liberal arts school in 1991 successfully petitioned for a conduct-code amendment that explicitly defined sexual consent as requiring an enthusiastic “yes” from everyone involved. Prior to this, sex was considered consensual as long as neither party said “no.” By 1993, Antioch had become a pop culture flashpoint — and a laughingstock.. “I remember being so offended,” said Kristine Herman, one of the Antioch women who advocated for the consent policy. “This was funny to people, but it’s not funny when you’re at a police station or when somebody is getting a rape kit.”. It was one of the first times that our culture’s old understanding of consent — no means no — collided with an emerging one: yes means yes. But as often happens when small voices ask society for big changes, Antioch’s definition of affirmative consent slowly began to catch on. Activists such as Herman went on talk shows and spoke at student conventions. Universities across the country adopted similar policies. The feminist blogosphere in the mid-2000s began writing about the limits of a “no means no” mantra, exploring how the burden to get consent fell on the initiator — rather than granting permission to all parties to enthusiastically give it.. The language around consent has expanded far beyond what Herman and her classmates had to work with 25 years ago.. “There wasn’t this nuanced lens to talk about it,” said Herman, an advocacy director at Brooklyn Defender Services who specializes in gender-based violence. “We didn’t have a vocabulary. Things were either rape or not rape.”. D.C. chef Rebecca Hassel, who moderates a women’s sex discussion group once a month called Women Uncorked, said “consent and communication come up constantly” among her cohort.. “I feel like Aziz happens all the time,” Hassel said. “Both parties were making so many assumptions, both parties were afraid of rejection.”. Learning how to speak the language of consent is akin to learning a new vernacular, she said.. “You have to practice,” Hassel said. “Just like you have to [practice] speaking in Spanish, or practice for job interviews as you’re graduating college, you have to practice this.”. Friedman said she is hopeful that our new consent vocabulary — and the growing shift toward acceptance of “yes means yes” — will help make sex talk feel less sanitary and be more about mutual pleasure.. “Part of what makes ‘yes means yes’ such an appealing proposition is that a.) it’s clarifying, and that b.) most people want to do what it says anyway,” Friedman said. “I would say that all decent people want to have sex with people that are into it. … At heart, it’s articulating a value that decent people already hold and it’s saying that we’re responsible to each other on some basic human level.”. And while #MeToo has empowered people who have long felt powerless in sexual situations to speak up and advocate for themselves, Kimmel said men, whom he studies, are experiencing a different kind of awakening — at least those willing to listen. After “Cat Person” and the story of Aziz Ansari’s questionable first date, “women started going through their own mental slide show,” Kimmel said. “Every woman was like: ‘Oh yeah, I’ve been there.’ ” Many men, he said, went through a similar mental slide show but saw very different pictures. “All these guys were like: ‘Oh my God, I thought she liked it.’ ”. Which shows that affirmative consent is “actually in our interest,” Kimmel said. And “yes means yes” is “the only way to get there.”. “We have a long way to go, and we’ve come a long way,” Kimmel said. “Both are true.”. READ MORE:. We all want good sex. It’s time for men to do their part.. How to tell a new partner about your past sexual trauma. ‘It’s tough to know where the line is’: The #MeToo era is making dating more confusing 