Four years ago, American freestyle skier Gus Kenworthy had planned to come out as gay with a televised kiss at the Sochi Olympics before backing out. It was too soon, Kenworthy decided. He wasn’t yet ready to make that statement.. On Sunday in PyeongChang, there were no second thoughts as Kenworthy, one of the first openly gay Americans competing at the Winter Games, casually kissed his boyfriend, Matthew Wilkas, before his first slopestyle run. The moment, which lasted a few seconds, was aired on NBC and celebrated as a sign of progress for LGBTQ activists.. Kenworthy, 26, publicly came out in 2015 and has embraced the platform the Olympics have given him.. “It’s 2018, and you see how open-minded many parts of the world are,” Kenworthy continued. “But there are also many parts of the world where being gay is punishable by death, punishable by jail time. It’s a new world, and it’s also not, and I think that the only way to change perception is through visibility, through representation, and the more that we have that, the more normalized queer becomes, the easier it is for people to wrap their heads around it, and I think that the more we’ll see positive change.”. Supporters online applauded the moment, and clips of the kiss immediately began to spread on social media. For some, the kiss represented much more than just a sign of affection. It was a step toward acceptance.. Kenworthy finished in 12th place in the finals of the men’s slopestyle competition. Teammate Nick Goepper won silver.. Kenworthy credited Wilkas for his success, calling him his “Seoul mate” in a social media post on Saturday.. “So happy to have my bf, my family and some amazing friends here in Korea to cheer me on!” he wrote. “Win or lose I just wanna thank you all SO much for your support and encouragement. I wouldn’t be here without you.”. Post Nation: ‘I can’t tone it down’: Olympic skater Adam Rippon speaks out for young LGBT Americans. ‘I just didn’t attack the way I should have’: Ted Ligety falls short in giant slalom. Chris Mazdzer grabs silver, becomes first U.S. man to win singles luge medal. Red Gerard wins first U.S. medal of PyeongChang Olympics, a gold in men’s slopestyle. Clockwork Orange: Sven Kramer, Dutch speedskating maestro, wins another gold 