For much of his adult life, Zhao, a gay man, has periodically pretended to be straight to please his parents, a ruse that involved finding and legally wedding a lesbian looking for the same, in known here as marriage.. Now divorced, 39, and heading home for the spring festival holiday on his own, he is readying himself for some version of the queries that haunt so many young Chinese: Why you married? And what about kids?. There are no reliable figures  people generally talk about these things  but the phenomenon is so common are lesbian-gay matchmaking events and lavender-marriage forums online. Until recently, there was a lavender-marriage app, Queers closed because it make money, but the Zhuoying, says he still hears from former clients desperate for year, users still send emails asking us, Can you help me find a lesbian to take home for the spring he I look forward to spring festival like I used to, said Zhao, who asked to use his English name because he is not out to his parents or all of his co-workers. a lot of pressure and you know what to Zhao never expected to marry a woman  he loves men  but by the time he hit his mid-30s, as though there was no choice.. Growing up in the northern heartland in the 1980s, he did not once hear the word He realized he was gay in college, but it was not until online chat rooms took off that he was able to connect with men. Later, living in the city, he could discreetly date.. By the time he hit his late 20s, the pressure to marry was intense. When he went home each year, people would urge him to settle down. say, already 28, or already 30, your classmates are already married with he He he could tell his parents. He did not want to disappoint them, or to have them worry about not having a grandson.. A mere 15 percent feel they can be open with close family members.. The pressure is not just from parents but from extended family and the community.. When relatives and friends get together for the spring festival, the most common topic for our parents generation is the marital status of the children, said a Beijing-based LGBT rights campaigner, who goes by the name Zhuchuan Maoerbing. . Patrick, a 30-year-old who works in the capital, and who asked to be identified only by the English name he has adopted, summoned the courage to tell his parents he liked men, only to have them rush him to a doctor in hysterics  and then urge him back into the closet.. They still hope that I can change  that if I get married, if I live with a girl, I will change, he said. Last year, he took a female friend home for the holidays. They pretended to be a couple in front of the extended family and old friends. His parents were This year, however, the friend has other plans. Patrick plans to tell people, including his parents, that his is tell them we broke up this year, he next After nearly a decade of tough trips home, Zhao started frequenting lavender-marriage forums to look for a lesbian to Since there are far more gay men looking to marry lesbian women than the other way around, it took a while to find a match. When someone was willing, he went for it. They met three times before getting The year after the wedding, Zhao spent Chinese New Year in relative less nosy. . But the rest of year, he was miserable. He and his wife moved in together, then fought bitterly about everything from household chores to visiting their parents to whether to have children.. Rather than ease sense of isolation, the marriage deepened it.. A 32-year-old gay man who spent two years married to a woman said the day he was married he felt like a lifeless figurine on top of a wedding cake. He asked to be identified by a nickname, Kong Qi, to protect his We needed the marriage, he said. And the people around us needed the marriage, but there was no meaning in it. . Kong and Zhao described being married to women as the loneliest and most painful period of their lives. At one point, Zhao said, he considered still have nightmares about it, he Zhao, who split from his wife after two all the reasons people want to pair off to prevent this, but said he has learned that marrying someone you do not know or love will deepen, not lessen, the suffering. . He has yet to come out to his parents. His father is sick and he want to stress him, especially this time of year, he  But he is waiting for his moment, working up the they understand what it means, he said. But they will still love   