Trump critics would do well to reflect on this moment. Because it’s not just Kelly and the other generals in the Trump administration whom they’ve claimed as part of the resistance. It’s judges, civil servants and newspaper reporters. It’s special counsel Robert Mueller and the FBI. Americans are rallying around institutions as a means of opposing the president — but also out of a desperate desire for truth and accountability as correctives to the constant chaos of Trump. Yet these institutions can’t provide the salvation people seek. And by setting expectations that are almost certain to be unmet, those who oppose the president may end up diminishing faith in America’s institutions, too.. With each new outrage, Trump smashes assumptions about the things a president would never do or say. Nonpartisan norms we thought we could depend on, such as the independence of the Justice Department and the importance of a free press, appear under threat.. Although this embrace of institutions has come mostly from Trump’s liberal-leaning critics (who have few other levers of power in Washington at the moment), it has a strongly conservative flavor. It reflects a desire to maintain structures already in place — and often to defer to figures of traditional authority.. Trump’s critics look to institutions — the courts, the FBI, the media, the military — to set the country back on stable ground and reestablish that shared world he so thoroughly disrupted.. But these institutions will never be able to deliver on this symbolic promise. Familiar and stable though they might be, they weren’t constructed to set the world right. Like all institutions, they have limited tool kits and missions that stop short of rescuing the nation.. The same is true of civil servants, who pride themselves not on their ability to #resist an incoming administration but on a tradition of apolitical service to the country and the Constitution.. Then there is the special counsel. The expectation that Mueller will act as a kind of avatar of justice on the Russia matter, sharing his discoveries of wrongdoing with the public in order to set things right, misreads the scope of his role. Mueller is a prosecutor, not a truth commissioner. His investigation may take years to complete. Even when (or if) he does reach a conclusion, the Justice Department’s special counsel regulations limit the chances that his findings will be made public. What’s more, many of the president’s most egregious failings are certainly immoral but not necessarily criminal. There’s no guarantee that Trump’s dismissal of Comey or his other efforts to erode the independence of the Justice Department will amount to a criminal charge — or a clause in an impeachment referral to Congress.. Within the government, on the other hand, there’s little evidence that organizations such as the FBI, the judiciary and the military are embracing this new and outsize view of their responsibilities. That’s for the best: The thought of the courts or the special counsel doling out a vision of “justice” unconstrained by law is a frightening one, and disobedience from military leadership would lead down a dangerous road. It’s true that some federal judges have ruled against Trump with unusual aggression, but such rulings don’t depart too far from the law. Likewise, military leaders have held back from outright opposition to the president. And Mueller has chosen to seclude himself from the public eye and let his investigation speak for itself, avoiding the posturing of his Clinton-era predecessor Kenneth Starr. . That doesn’t mean we shouldn’t rally around institutions. On the contrary, it’s crucially important right now to defend the free press, the expertise and dedication of the civil service, and the independence of the judiciary and federal law enforcement. But in doing so, it’s also important to understand the necessary limits and weaknesses of those organizations. In turning to institutions for stability, we’re seeking refuge from imbalance and untruth in the conservative and comfortable. The risk is that this desire for comfort can prevent us from doing the uncomfortable but necessary work of acknowledging those institutions’ failures.. The unsatisfactory truth is that institutions will not save us. We have to do the work of saving ourselves — while protecting these institutions from Trump and pushing to improve them. The only way out of the Trump presidency’s constant upheaval of morality and knowledge and meaning, its destruction of the world we share as citizens, is nothing more or less than politics.. Twitter: @qjurecic. Read more: 