RIO DE JANEIRO With president portrayed as a and dancers dressed as shackled slaves and downtrodden street vendors, a scrappy samba school brought politics to the heart of glamorous Carnival sensitive question of whether slavery still exists in the country and setting off a firestorm of praise and criticism.. Though Carnival ended Wednesday, the debate over the performance by de echoing the political upheavals shaking Latin America's economic powerhouse.. de Tuiuti is a relatively unknown samba school that previously participated in Carnival competition of samba troupes only twice, placing last both times. So it is telling performance came in second this year, missing out on first place by just a tenth of a point.. In chaotic and polarized political environment which in recent years has included an impeachment, a brutal recession and a widespread corruption investigation that has brought down many members of the political elite the climate was ripe for political statements. Tuiuti was not alone in delving into politics the winning school depicted the scenes of violence plaguing the city and government officials dressed as wolves pretending to be sheep, with money falling out of their suits.. Tuiuti, however, the most direct in their said Leandro Silveira, a historian and Carnival parade commentator on National Radio in Rio de Janeiro. "This was a historic parade. the underdogs the small school from the favela and this parade with the political message is by far the best ever done, which is emblematic. They made a big statement and captured how many Brazilians feel during these times of political and economic The song was titled, God, my God, is slavery and started with a group of dancers in shackles with muzzles and scars from whips, depicting horrendous past. The nation received the most slaves in the Americas, and more than half the country's 200 million people identify as mixed race or black.. A float with a massive copy of the which abolished slavery in 1888, was followed by a group of dancers dressed in costumes homes representing the shantytowns where many liberated slaves settled after abolition. Today, these communities are still mostly populated by black and mixed-race Brazilians.. Making a connection with modern-day slavery, the next dancers evoked rural laborers who, to this day, work under slave-like conditions. They were followed by street are everywhere Brazil and live precarious lives.. The next group took a direct jab at policies that rolled back rights and raised the retirement age by with numerous arms holding different tools, symbolizing the strain on the working class. They also held enlarged, tattered versions of formal employment cards.. am slave to no went the lyrics of the samba tune.. One of the most controversial costumes criticized protesters who took to the streets en masse starting in 2015 to call for the ouster of left-wing President Dilma Rousseff, who was impeached in 2016. Giant hands attached to puppet strings hung above the a fusion of the Portuguese words for and The last float was topped with a man impersonating president, Michel Temer, dressed as a with the presidential sash and a large collar stuffed with U.S. dollar bills. Temer came to power after Rousseff was impeached, and he has spent much of his time in office dodging corruption charges himself. His approval rating is As the reveler passed, spectators chanted with Praise and criticism of Tuiuti has exploded on social networks and the small school has become the most discussed subject on Brazilian Twitter.. Rousseff tweeted an image of the and said, carnival of with In Rio, the do Tuiuti samba school uplifted the crowd singing of slavery and think the Carnival folks have their information said Rodrigo Maia, the speaker of Brazil's lower house of parliament and an ally of Temer, saying the new policies for workers would create more jobs.. Silveira, the parade commentator, said this was the most political Carnival since the mid-1980s and early 1990s, right after military dictatorship that period, he said, schools tended to focus more on technical things like special effects, and corporations sometimes sponsored themes, stripping them of any politics.. put on a parade that was joyful, bold and showed African Silveira said. Carnival in Rio, I think, will be a rebirth for the samba schools to start expressing the feeling of the people through 