A Carnival cruise devolved into near-anarchy during its 10 days in the South some themselves cabins, off the ship and security guards brawling with a bare-knuckles melee.. Carnival said it would investigate what happened after a video surfaced, showing the guards punching, kicking and threatening passengers during the worst of the fighting the cruise line is already blaming a large family group which some passengers said escalated for days before security could contain it.. The trouble started after the which can carry more than 2,000 people, set sail Caledonia last week, according to many accounts from passengers  though there are disputes of exactly when and why it all began.. Others, a single family of about two dozen people seemed intent on provoking conflicts  spitting in the pool, screaming in the smoking area with passengers and staff over any provocation.. In a statement to The Washington Post, Carnival confirmed several instances [of] extremely unruly behavior on the ship.. Some it more as a state of constant fear.. all made several complaints, saying kids were scared, Bolitho said. The captain said, What do you want me to do about it  throw them overboard? . The skirmishes escalated for several days at sea, passengers a massive out nightclub early Friday morning.. As on the pool deck, unclear what provoked it. Carnival said the aggressive family group physically attacked other Before ends, a security guard balls his fist and draws his arm back as if to punch a woman in the face, but he lowers his first at the last moment.. The actions seen on the video by our security team are not in line with our Carnival values and policies, a spokeswoman said in a statement. We are conducting a full investigation and will take appropriate corrective action as were, in fact, called to meet the ship off the coast of Eden, a couple hundred miles east of Melbourne.. Other passengers gathered on the deck, booing and clapping as the loaded into a police boat. One of them appeared to be wearing a head bandage, looked defiant.. a out from the ship. A man on the police a middle finger in response.. On Saturday, Carnival said, the Legend docked back in Melbourne, 10 days after leaving port.. We sincerely regret that the unruly conduct and actions of the passengers removed from the ship may have prevented other guests from fully enjoying their cruise, read the statement, which did not go into details about the incident.. As a goodwill gesture, Carnival said, passengers who made it through the cruise offered a 25-percent-off coupon for their next one.. More reading:. Strangers caught in a sex act on Delta flight could face felony charges, authorities say. British Airways apologizes after passengers say bedbug-infested flight left them covered in A man got a middle seat on a 13-hour flight. Passengers recorded his fit of rage, then arrest.. A belligerent man in a Trump hat was kicked off a flight as a crowd chanted: Lock him up! 