Carnival said it would investigate what happened after a video surfaced, showing the guards punching, kicking and threatening passengers during the worst of the fighting Friday. But the cruise line is already blaming “a large family group” for instigating the violence, which some passengers said escalated for days before security could contain it.. The trouble started after the Carnival Legend, which can carry more than 2,000 people, set sail from Melbourne to New Caledonia last week — though there are disputes of exactly when and why it all began.. Others, however, said a single family of about two dozen people seemed intent on provoking conflicts — spitting in the pool, screaming in the smoking area and fighting with passengers and staff over any provocation.. In a statement to The Washington Post, Carnival confirmed “several instances [of] extremely unruly behavior” on the ship.. Some passengers described it more as a state of constant fear.. “We’ve all made several complaints, saying kids were scared,” Bolitho said. “The captain said, ‘What do you want me to do about it — throw them overboard?’ ”. The skirmishes escalated for several days at sea, passengers said, until a massive brawl broke out in the ship’s nightclub early Friday morning.. As on the pool deck, it’s unclear what provoked it. Carnival said the aggressive family group “physically attacked other guests.”. Before the video ends, a security guard balls his fist and draws his arm back as if to punch a woman in the face, but he lowers his fist at the last moment.. “The actions seen on the video by our security team are not in line with our Carnival values and policies,” a spokeswoman said in a statement. “We are conducting a full investigation and will take appropriate corrective action as necessary.”. The police were, in fact, called to meet the ship off the coast of Eden, a couple hundred miles east of Melbourne.. Other passengers gathered on the Legend’s deck, booing and clapping as the family was loaded into a police boat. One of them appeared to be wearing a head bandage, and all looked defiant.. “Losers!” a woman cried out from the ship. A man on the police boat raised a middle finger in response.. On Saturday, Carnival said, the Legend docked back in Melbourne, 10 days after leaving port.. “We sincerely regret that the unruly conduct and actions of the passengers removed from the ship may have prevented other guests from fully enjoying their cruise,” read the company’s statement, which did not go into details about the incident.. As a goodwill gesture, Carnival said, passengers who made it through the cruise have been offered a 25-percent-off coupon for their next one.. More reading:. Strangers caught in a sex act on Delta flight could face felony charges, authorities say. A man got a middle seat on a 13-hour flight. Passengers recorded his ‘fit of rage,’ then arrest.. A belligerent man in a Trump hat was kicked off a flight as a crowd chanted: ‘Lock him up!’ 