If you survive a mass shooting, life changes quickly. For me, at Virginia Tech almost 11 years ago, it changed the instant I heard the gunshots.. When I learned about the high school shooting in Parkland, Fla., on Wednesday, the feelings I had during and after the shooting I lived through came back immediately.. The feeling of safety I’d known my whole life was stripped away in seconds, replaced with terror, sadness, loneliness and self-doubt. Figuring out how to deal with these feelings — while regaining a sense of security, without pushing everyone and everything away — has been challenging. These days, when mass shootings happen, I write about what I went through to process my emotions. It helps me heal to know that I might be helping others heal, too.. I had a tremendous fear that it would happen again. People told me about the odds, but that wasn’t much comfort: I’d already defied them. I hear way too often: “A mass shooting won’t happen to me. Not at my school, and not in my community.” That’s what I thought, too, before it happened at Virginia Tech. The truth is that it is always somebody’s school and somebody’s community, somebody’s loved ones. And there’s no guarantee it won’t happen again.. I eventually regained a sense of public safety, but it took time and counseling.. But these shootings affect more than just the families and friends who lost loved ones and the victims who were shot. I wasn’t shot, but for me, recovery didn’t start until years after the shooting. During those years, I was in denial that I needed help, because I didn’t have physical wounds or scars. This reaction is common; it feels very selfish to ask for resources when others were killed or wounded. But the truth is, we need them, too.. By now, there are thousands of physically uninjured survivors of mass shootings, as well as law enforcement officers and medics who responded to these events. These people may think for a long time that, because the media didn’t mention them, they weren’t affected. But while they may have escaped gun wounds, the mental wounds run deep. They may walk wounded for months, sometimes years, before realizing the impact the shooting had on them.. Read more:. I own guns. But I hate the NRA.. I’m a responsible gun owner, so I destroyed my guns. Now is exactly the right time to talk about gun politics 