The National Football League season may be over, but athletes speaking out against the president, particularly on issues related to minority communities, and Trump supporters' efforts to undercut those messages show no signs of slowing down.. ESPN anchor Cari Champion, who led the conversation in the video, asked how the players would describe the climate for an athlete with a platform who wants to talk about happening in our The climate is hot, James replied. He said that the current president  filling the No. 1 job in America  is someone who understand the people and really give a f--- about the Clearly upset with the athletes' take president, Fox News host Laura Ingraham  Trump supporter  addressed the recording, saying the out of the political conversation and should stick to sports.. Must they run their mouths like that? Unfortunately, a lot of kids  and some adults  take these ignorant comments seriously, Ingraham said Thursday night on her show. And always unwise to seek political advice from someone who gets paid a hundred million dollars a year to bounce a Oh, and LeBron and Kevin: great players, but no one voted for you ... So keep the political commentary to yourself or, as someone once said, shut up and The shut up and dribble command isn't that different from the shut up and sing directive many conservatives lob at liberals in the entertainment industry who are critical of the right.. Ingraham, who was once floated as a possible White House press secretary to replace Sean Spicer, defended her attack on Friday.. If you want to be a political pundit, coming on my court, okay? do it. have a real conversation about black unemployment, she said on her show. talk about violence in the inner city. talk about all the issues, like school choice. do it. think not going to get criticized if all you do is a drive-by hit on Trump and say no The idea that the of political punditry belongs host on the president's preferred cable network is bound to get pushback.. What makes Ingraham an expert  a host on a cable network with primarily white hosts and conservative guests issues related to people of color in urban areas?. Entertainers and American politics for many of the same business owners, service members and religious leaders discuss politics: They are American citizens with ideas about policies that affect the communities they represent.. By Ingraham telling Americans who don't agree with her views to shut up and dribble, it certain leads them to add the host  and her network  to the list of influential voices who do not understand the concerns of those who do not look like them. 